MATT: All right. It has begun. People are starting
to join. Now it's over here, Taliesin.
TALIESIN: I know, I'm just--
MATT: No, don't avoid. You don't avoid, Taliesin.
TALIESIN: Goddamn it. Hi. Good morning. Good
afternoon? Good afternoon. God.
MATT: It's a--
TALIESIN: Wow. That was fast.
MATT: Wow! Okay, that's picking up quickly. Hi
guys!
TALIESIN: Hello.
MATT: (laughs) We did the Critmas thing, the video
on Talks Machina a couple weeks ago. And then a
bunch of stuff came in afterward. To give you an
example-- --can. We have this, and this, and this--
TALIESIN: Here for scale.
MATT: And this, and this. So we've got a couple
things to do. And Taliesin for scale.
TALIESIN: Just so you can imagine, I'm about four
feet tall. That'll give you an idea of how big
this is. Give or take a few feet.
MATT: A little bit. We're also very lazy. Don't
give us any shit that our tree is still up. Anyway.
TALIESIN: I like the tree.
MATT: Hi guys! Happy New Year! Welcome to all the
chaos. Hope you're enjoying our pseudo break game
on Thursday. Patrick Rothfuss was awesome, it was
great that he was able to come in last minute and
hope he can make it next week. We'll see. Yes,
it's quite a few packages. We're going to do our
best to try and get through them as fast as
possible. You guys are awesome. I got a hello from
Scotland, hello from England. Marisha is lighting
some incense.
MARISHA: Hi guys! I'm realizing I look like a
fisherman right now.
MATT: There you go, Fisher-isha.
TALIESIN: Fish-a.
MARISHA: That's some high school shit right
there.
MATT: I'm sorry. I'm going to regret that later.
Me and Marisha are excited, we had a good day. We
locked in our wedding venue. Which we're happy
about, so finally got that situated. Anyway. "Is
"Boris okay?" We're still on the lookout for Boris.
Boris Watch 2017 is now in order.
MARISHA: What watch?
MATT: Boris watch.
MARISHA: Oh shit.
TALIESIN: Who's Boris?
MARISHA: Boris is a spider.
MATT: Boris. It's a story. Boris the spider is a
prick. People are saying your hat looks cozy, Marisha.
MARISHA: Mmm. It's chilly.
TALIESIN: It is a little chilly.
MARISHA: Should I turn the heat up?
TALIESIN: (noncommittal sounds)
MARISHA: I'll turn the heat up just a tidbit.
MATT: Turn the heat up. There you go. Just because
now I'm remembering. I'm going to do this for the
guys who need it. We're going to go sideways.
TALIESIN: Yeah. That's a thing. That makes life
better.
MATT: There you go.
TALIESIN: Somebody had to make a little edit
there, later.
MATT: Yeah. That's for you, Critical Scope! That
was for you. So yeah, we're going to cruise
through these. We've got some box cutters.
TALIESIN: Tennis shoes. Sorry.
MATT: The usual. People are saying "beep beep"
from all over the world. Thank you, Andrew. Let's
get this going so we don't keep you guys in too
long. You just TPKed your group? No! --characters now.
TALIESIN: Love a good TPK.
MATT: Love a good TPK? They happen a lot at the
lower levels. If you're not careful, at least.
Welcome guys, welcome to our little hang out.
MARISHA: I love how we're sitting in front of the
Christmas tree, but it's not plugged in. It's like
a compromise.
MATT: We can't plug the tree in, it's past
Christmas. This is the slow death of the tree,
even though it's not a real tree. Oh! We've got
friends from all over the world today.
TALIESIN: Oh wow.
MATT: As well as CaptainNimoy, our good Irish
friend from the chatroom. Chat disappeared, but
that's okay, came back on. All right, let's go
ahead and get some presents going here. I'll turn
this around; Marisha, Taliesin, you guys want to
get the front load of this. Here's a couple of box
cutters. I'll start passing this around. Let's
start grabbing some stuff! What you got?
TALIESIN: All right, here, I'll just--
MATT: Oh my god, we've got people from Overwatch
here. Hey guys! Welcome to our weekend chaos.
TALIESIN: I've got one from Australia. All right.
MARISHA: Let's see. This is from, wait, this is to
Brian Foster.
TALIESIN: Oh, well we should save it for Brian.
MARISHA: Should I open it for him, though?
TALIESIN: I'm amused at the notion of opening his
mail.
MATT: Just do it. It's not illegal for his
friends.
MARISHA: Well, it's Brian Foster, care of Critical
Role. Currently it is in the care of Critical Role.
MATT: Sure. We've got to take care of it.
MARISHA: He'll understand. Won't you, Brian? He
might be watching. He watches our shit.
MATT: People are loving your hair, Taliesin.
TALIESIN: Oh yay. Thank you! It just got done,
because I had to go to the DMV and this felt like
the appropriate thing to do.
MARISHA: I'm going to get mine done later. I'm so
stoked! I'm going to go back to purple, back to purple.
TALIESIN: It's going to be great.
MARISHA: What is happening?
TALIESIN: You found tiny balls.
MARISHA: There's lots of packing peanuts. I've got
a good confirmation on packing peanuts.
TALIESIN: And a packing slip.
MARISHA: Oh! They're whiskey glasses.
TALIESIN: Are they whiskey glasses?
MATT: Oh, Brian's going to love that.
MARISHA: They're shot glasses, I think.
TALIESIN: Oh my god!
MARISHA: Oh nice. Oh my god! Foster!
MATT: Talks Machina shot glasses.
TALIESIN: We're going to make sure Foster never
sees these. Ever.
MATT: Yeah. They're going to stay at our place.
MARISHA: (glass shattering) It's an extra Critical
Role one.
TALIESIN: Oh, nice.
MARISHA: Oh my goodness. Okay. I've got to go grab
my phone and take a picture.
MATT: We've got folks from Cork, Ireland in here.
From the Dominican Republic.
TALIESIN: Oh my god.
MATT: This is awesome. South Jersey. Slovenia.
Holy s-- wow!
TALIESIN: Awesome!
MATT: Rhode Island. We've got people from all over
in here.
TALIESIN: This came from Australia.
MATT: England. Chicago. Belgium. New Orleans.
Portland. Ohio. Scotland. Denmark. Oh man. I'm
going to be saying a lot of things here.
TALIESIN: Oh shit, son!
MARISHA: This is from Eddie Chandler,
@chandlereddie1. And he says, "Hello, Brian. I
"felt you needed one of the Critical Role Glasses.
However, please also find one especially for you
"and your show. Call it a late birthday/X-mas gift,
etc."
MATT: That's awesome. Marisha, did you see what
Taliesin just--
TALIESIN: From Australia. Tim-Tams and candy.
MARISHA: Oh!
MATT: We had just run out of Tim-Tams.
TALIESIN: Oh my god. More sugar.
MATT: Those who haven't tried a Tim-Tam slam,
seriously, you've got to.
MARISHA: That's where it's at.
MATT: Especially with hot coffee or hot cocoa.
MARISHA: Oh my god. I might have to make some hot
chocolate right now. Fuck me.
TALIESIN: That might be post-- ooh, what's this?
Hold on, there's a letter here.
MARISHA: Chocolate Freddo the Frog, a caramel
koala. What's a Buzz? Milk chocolate-covered
marshmallow and caramel. Fuck yeah, man.
TALIESIN: From CaspertheIttyBittyPuppy.
MARISHA: Chocolate everywhere else is better than
in the United States.
MATT: This is true, actually.
TALIESIN: It's true. We have terrible chocolate.
MARISHA: We have terrible chocolate because our
FDA standards suck. Holy shit. I have to go to
take a picture and send this to Foster.
TALIESIN: Casper, thank you so much. We will make
sure that the crew sees a teeny tiny amount of
this. The smallest amount possible. Might just get
a photo. Thank you so much. And this is for Laura,
so I won't open it. I'll make sure this gets to
Laura. I'm going to put this in the Laura pile.
MATT: Do it. So great.
TALIESIN: And I put everything away.
MATT: Certainly. That is all candy. It is
delightful, delightful candy.
TALIESIN: Oh, that is a lot of sugar.
MATT: Yes, it is.
TALIESIN: This goes in another pile, and this goes
for the Laura pile.
MATT: Everyone is walking away.
TALIESIN: Yeah. Everyone is walking away.
MATT: Marisha, send the pictures quickly. We've
got to open more presents! All right, Taliesin.
TALIESIN: I'll keep going.
MATT: Keep going. We'll switch off in a second.
TALIESIN: Hi, I'm going to move. Okay. I'm tense
about bleeding because I used the X-Acto knife the
wrong way.
MARISHA: It's fine. I have to do this now, or else
I'll forget.
TALIESIN: That is true.
MATT: Someone asked, "How often do you re-dye your
hair, Taliesin?"
TALIESIN: Not as often as I should, because I
don't mind it fading. That way also you can get
new colors. So maybe every few months? And then
sometimes I'll just stop. I haven't stopped in a
while. But I'll probably--
MARISHA: You'll eventually stop.
TALIESIN: I'll stop, and then I'll do it again.
It's always doing weird stuff. If you want to have
this kind of color and not dye it all the time,
they actually now make conditioners that have
premixed hair dye in them, and it will stay
forever. It's nuts. You can do that.
MATT: Oh, Tuk is in here, Yukira is in here. That
amazing, amazing manga pages they sent. That was amazing.
TALIESIN: Oh, yeah! Erin Branch, this comes from,
is this Australia again? Yeah. Holy cow. Yeah,
another one from Australia. Wow! Oh my god! I get
a feeling that this was a Christmas themed--
there's more strange candy.
MATT: Critmas continues. Critmas carries on!
TALIESIN: Oh dear. This is for you guys,
actually.
MATT: What is that?
MARISHA: Oh. Oh.
TALIESIN: You have a box. You have a very personal
box.
MARISHA: I like the box.
TALIESIN: And a card, and I have something in this
stocking.
MATT: People are requesting Dagon shortly.
MARISHA: Dagon just took a bath. She's a wet
bird.
MATT: Yeah. Oh Tuk's in there.
MATT, TALIESIN, and MARISHA: Hi, Tuk!
MATT: People are asking: Will I start making
players make pregnancy rolls?
ALL: No.
TALIESIN: Wow, no.
MARISHA: Fuck that.
TALIESIN: We have enough of that in real life.
MARISHA: Right?
TALIESIN: I make that roll often enough as it is.
MARISHA: Plus it's a magical fantasy land.
TALIESIN: This is my escapism. This is not
Skyrim.
MARISHA: I'm pretty sure they have
contraceptives.
MATT and MARISHA: There's a cantrip for that.
TALIESIN: There's probably a really funny, good
cantrip for that.
MATT: Exactly.
TALIESIN: There was that book. I'm trying to
remember the name of that book that you got Sam
for his birthday. I wasn't the only one who got
Sam a weird book for his birthday.
MATT: We got Sam the book on erotic roleplay.
MARISHA: Oh, this is from Tuk.
TALIESIN: Oh!
MATT and TALIESIN: Look at that timing!
MARISHA: Yeah, Tuk! We got your box! I don't know
why I'm screaming it at you. "Congratulations on
"your engagement! The box contains a small present
I think you will both appreciate. Wishing you a
"Merry Aussie Christmas. Love, Tuk." Oh look at it.
It's an ostrich, a koala, a kangaroo, having a
beach Christmas.
MATT: That's beautiful.
MARISHA: Okay, what's in here?
MATT: If players ever in the story ever want to
introduce offspring, that's their choice. I don't
want to make it a random roll for them.
MARISHA: (laughs)
MATT: What'd you get?
MARISHA: I think she got us thyme.
TALIESIN: Wow. Never enough, is there?
MARISHA: There's never enough thyme.
MATT: Aw, that's beautiful.
MARISHA: It's a box of thyme.
TALIESIN: Oh, I love page poetry.
MATT: That is fantastic.
MARISHA: Aw, then she said, "Just kidding. This is
your real gift."
MATT: You did buy us thyme, Tuk, and we appreciate
that. We need it.
TALIESIN: A page of poetry, very nice. This is a
form that I am a fan of.
MATT: Oh, is it?
MARISHA: Oh, this is amazing. She made a donation
in honor of our engagement. Tuk, this is amazing.
She gifted solar lights and school pencils through
the World Vision Association in Australia.
MATT: That's amazing!
MARISHA: "A gift of pencils means kids in poor
communities can write, draw, and dream their way
"to a brighter future. A gift of solar lights is a
clean and safe energy solution for families made
"homeless by conflict or disaster." This is
amazing. Thank you so much, and as well as your
gift of thyme, of all the time.
MATT: It's so beautiful.
MARISHA: That's amazing. I especially appreciate
this watch that says, "I believe in you!"
TALIESIN: I only saw the hour hand. It's
ridiculous. That's just ridiculous. Okay. I'll
make sure Liam gets his package. It's genius,
considering the weird stuff that comes from the
mail. This was very smart.
MATT: What is it?
TALIESIN: Everything is in a plastic-sealed
envelope.
MATT: That's pretty great, actually.
TALIESIN: Really clever. Because things happen in
our mailbox. Things that should not. I'll make a
Liam pile.
MARISHA: This box smells like thyme. Box me.
MATT: People keep asking me how big your bath is
at home, Taliesin.
TALIESIN: It's actually not the biggest bath on
earth, but it's comfortable. I don't have a hot
tub yet. I keep meaning to do that.
MATT: There you go.
TALIESIN: It's just such an event.
MATT: People are going nuts over your hair,
Taliesin. They want the color.
TALIESIN: Someday in the near future, everyone
will be able to do this no matter where you work.
This is definitely a privilege of the job. It's a
big privilege of the job.
MATT: All right, opening these presents. By the
way, guys, some of these boxes apparently got lost
in the chaos at the actual studio and have
recently been uncovered, so maybe a few packages
here are being opened that should have been opened
a while back.
TALIESIN: There have been some tectonic shifts.
We've discovered a lost temple of Crit Role mail.
MARISHA: Brian might come by.
MATT: Brian might come by? That'd be awesome!
MARISHA: He's in Van Nuys, I guess.
MATT: Dude, yeah! Let Brian come by and help open
some stuff.
TALIESIN: I don't know, I just handed it to you. I
didn't really think things through. Boy, did I not
think things through. How does this box work? I
don't understand.
MARISHA: How does this box work?
MATT: How does box work?
MARISHA: How do box work?
MATT: How. Does. Box. Work?
TALIESIN: Like fucking magnets. Ah!
MATT: Make an intelligence check, guys.
TALIESIN: That never ends well.
MATT: Nope.
TALIESIN: Where does this come from? Another one
from Australia! There's a lot from Australia.
MARISHA: This is also from somewhere over the
pond.
TALIESIN: What! You're going to die.
MARISHA: Candy! What is it?
TALIESIN: You're going to die.
MARISHA: What is it?
TALIESIN: No, finish that and then we'll get to
this.
MARISHA: Is it Shiraz? I hope it's Shiraz.
MATT: It's from Australia, probably.
TALIESIN: I'm not going to say anything yet.
MARISHA: This is for Liam. This is Wispa. This has
got to be from--
MATT: Aw, PuffGames is in here. That's awesome.
Got a box for Liam.
MARISHA: This is for Matt.
MATT: I got a thing.
MARISHA: You get a thing.
MARISHA: Who is this from?
TALIESIN: I'm very excited about this one.
MARISHA: Someone got us lots of candy.
MARISHA: We are going to be set on candy.
TALIESIN: I was about to say, thank god we have
all the new hires over at work, so we can jump in
a pile of candy.
MARISHA: This is from Rebecca aka Vehlr. You know
this already. "You probably already know this, but
"you guys are awesome. I came to the show quite
late. You guys were already beyond your 50th show
"when the Critical Role wave hit me, so I got to
watch a lot of the unfolding." She goes on to talk
about how--
TALIESIN: Take care you don't read into the
private things.
MARISHA: I know. I want to make sure I'm not
doing. Her workmates got into the show and now
they want to start their own game. She said Liam's
one shot was very innovative for her.
TALIESIN: It was okay. He did okay.
MARISHA: "As I write this, you are no doubt
preparing for episode 72. The fans are wildly
"theorizing, the artists are producing amazing
things for Inktober, and Taliesin is keeping it
"spooky on Twitter."
TALIESIN: (cackling)
MARISHA: "Despite all my years of trolling the
internet, thanks to you I have been surprised by
"how good a fandom can be."
TALIESIN: Always nice to be the lighter side of
Twitter, isn't it?
MARISHA: She doesn't say-- oh!
MATT: This is Russian propaganda.
MARISHA: Rebecca's the one that got the tattoo.
MATT: Oh, really?
MARISHA: Because she said her wrist is healing up.
"Turns out, my tattoo is in exactly the wrong
place for typing."
TALIESIN: Oh, ow.
MATT: That'll do it.
MARISHA: Oh shit. I don't know where these came
from. Thank you, Rebecca. That's amazing, we'll
make sure that Liam gets this, and then that's for
you.
MATT: What am I opening? Are you going to turn
this around and I'll open it, and then we'll get
back to your awesome-
TALIESIN: Wait, you got a quick letter to read.
You do you, and then we'll do this one.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: Actually, that'll be good. We can make
it a 360.
MATT: That's awesome! Someone made me a custom
miniature of myself in a DM robe with a Tal'Dorei
book, which is pretty freaking rad. That's
awesome. That's going in the office.
TALIESIN: You would look good on a slab of cement
that you can carry around.
MATT: I'll try and get one. It'll be great.
Marisha's currently dual wielding phones right
now, so I'm going to duck down to get in the
frame.
MARISHA: Nope. I got you, man.
MATT: All right. Let's spin it around.
TALIESIN: Here, if you want we can keep it--
MATT: I think you should show Marisha what she
got.
TALIESIN: Read your letter, and let me know when I
can hand you the thing.
MARISHA: I love the seal. Fuck yeah, wax seal.
MATT: Yes, I'm wearing my Periscope pants.
MARISHA: Yeah. Periscope pants. Comfort pants. I
have to wear real pants far too often. Oh my god,
crazy handwritten letters. Kat! Kat! This is from
Kat! It has to be Shiraz. "Dear Matt and Marisha,
"Firstly, thank you. I know you must hear it all
the time, but you are both such amazing,
"inspirational people. I was lucky enough to meet
you both in person. It just made me admire and
"respect you more. Critical Role has been a great
source of inspiration for me, and like many other
"Critters and Critical Role artists, this got me
back in a steady creative headspace each week.
"There is always something new and inspiring to
create and form." She goes on to talk about her
artistic drive: "Watching Critical Role--" Once
again, I don't want to say anything that is too
personal. "Anyway, I'm sure by now you know how
awesome you both are. No need me for me to keep
"reminding you. I wanted to share some wine with
the wine speaker and vendor herself. Please enjoy
"the Ashari brew from the Fire Plane of Australia.
Much love, Kat." What the fuck! What?! You see that?!
MATT: Ashari Shiraz.
MARISHA: Which is sexy sounding.
ALL: Ashari Shiraz.
MATT: That sounds like a Batman villain.
TALIESIN: It sounds like something hard to say
after a bottle of it.
MARISHA: That sounds like something we would try
to get Patrick Rothfuss-- hey, Patrick Rothfuss.
Ashari Shiraz. Ashari Shiraz. Ashari Shiraz. That
wasn't too bad
MATT: It's pretty great.
TALIESIN: What was it? "An Irish wristwatch."
MARISHA: Irish wristwatch.
TALIESIN: An Irish wristwatch. That's very hard to
say.
MARISHA: Wow, this is insane. It's all the way
down. I don't even-- wow. "Local knowledge of the
"volcanic earth has helped us to select the prime
goodberries of the Shiraz variety. Across the vast
"Fire Plane valleys of Australia, this vineyard,
diversely coupled with traditional druidic wine
"bending techniques, result in a pure druidic
Shiraz. The Ashari people have been immersed in
"the culture of farming, food, wine, and community
for hundreds of generations. Our commitment to the
"quality in all aspects is unwavering, and any wine
that bears the Ashari druid symbol represents the
"purest of excellence in wine and community.
Produced by the wine druids of the Ashari people.
"Wine of the Ashari contains sulfur."
TALIESIN: There'll be wine druid, will be a
subclass coming soon.
MARISHA: I feel like I should open it. Jesus shit.
This is amazing!
TALIESIN: Yeah, that's amazing
MARISHA: Kat, you're ridiculous.
TALIESIN: I'm so excited.
MATT: Exactly. All right, we got a lot of stuff to
get through.
TALIESIN: I got a letter from Les Crystalstarry, I
want to say? She apparently felt the urge to pick
up her calligraphy pen again and sent me-- I
actually know this song. It's the lyrics to the
song "The Parting Glass." I am a bit of a singer
when I get drunk. This is the inevitable Irish
wake song. I used to actually sing it with my
historical recreationist friends every Memorial
Day, and it's a very tearful song. I can see how
nearly dying would inspire this. Thank you so
much! At some point, I'll probably end up singing
this on Geek & Sundry when we have a really bad
day. Probably a little liquored up. Thank you so
much. This is fantastic.
MARISHA: That's a very positive inducing gift.
I'll try and move faster.
TALIESIN: I'll try to not cut myself.
MARISHA: Same.
MATT: (singing) Opening the box, the box getting
open. That's my new--
TALIESIN and MATT: What's in the box?
MARISHA: This is from Anna Krezowski.
TALIESIN: From where?
MARISHA: From Maine?
TALIESIN: MA is Maine, not Massachusetts. I always
forget which one is which. Now I have the
Massachusetts song stuck in my head.
MARISHA: (grunting)
TALIESIN: You're doing great.
MATT: You can do it.
TALIESIN: One of us is going to cut themselves
eventually.
MARISHA: Don't say that like it's probably going
to happen.
TALIESIN: I know us in real life.
MARISHA: This is not a gift.
TALIESIN: Oh, this is something that I was sent
that we have to deal with. Carry on. Here, have a
gift, or something else with a label. We don't
actually sort this mail beforehand. We should
probably do that.
MARISHA: Well, we used to.
TALIESIN: Every now and then, they're like, "What
happened to those light bulbs?"
MARISHA: That's true. Ooh, what is these?
TALIESIN: From Brittany Whetland--
MATT: From Brittany Whetland, you said?
TALIESIN: Yeah, she has a Dungeons & Dragons group
of her own. I don't blame you; I stopped DMing for
a reason as well. Oh god.
MATT: Nothing wrong with saying hi from Virginia,
by the way. Virginia's awesome.
MARISHA: Meghan LeVaughn.
TALIESIN: Wow! That's fantastic. That's a really
good title. All right, and apparently-- Oh, wow!
MARISHA: Meghan got me a Pac-Man dress.
MATT: Oh, that's so cute!
MARISHA: Isn't that so cute? I actually have
Pac-Man leggings that these will totally go with.
TALIESIN: I forgot about that.
MARISHA: Yeah! That's pretty adorable. Oh, Meghan!
You spoil us too much. So cute, thank you!
TALIESIN: Oh yes, the carrot cake! This is
apparently handmade.
MATT: What is? What?!
TALIESIN: It's a rug.
MARISHA: Shut up!
MATT: No way! That's nuts! What?!
MARISHA: Where should we put that?
TALIESIN: I don't know. We have to think about it.
We have to have some discussion.
MARISHA: We were wanting more rugs for the
office.
TALIESIN: You were wanting more rugs for the
office. I don't want anybody to step on this, though.
MARISHA: We could also use that on the Talks
Machina set.
TALIESIN: It could be on the Talks Machina set.
That's true.
MATT: That looks incredible. That's going to find
some happy use.
MARISHA: Oh my goodness gracious.
TALIESIN: That's nuts.
MARISHA: That's so awesome! Dude, that's nuts. You
guys!
TALIESIN: Thank you so much.
MARISHA: Do you want me to take over, Matt?
MATT: Sure, we'll swap out. (singing) Take hold of
the camera, say hi to the chatroom. All right, let
me grab some things to carry over. I'm going to
grab these boxes here. Hi everyone! Let's grab
this. This one is from Troy Pensclose from
Stratford, who sent--
MARISHA: Hi, everybody. How you doing?
MATT: "Matt, Marisha, Liam, Taliesin, and whoever
wants them. Enclosed are two copies of Tome of
"Potioncraft for their creation and use. My hope is
that this may aid Keyleth in her potion crafting
"exploits, if only as a source of inspiration for
Matt's creativity. There will be a companion tome
"on poison showing up sometime in 2017 as well, as
soon as the Kickstarter finally ships.
MARISHA: That is what I want in my life.
MATT: I think you want this one.
TALIESIN: I'm down.
MATT: I think this one will be shared between me
and Marisha.
MARISHA: Yes, because I am the alchemist of the
group.
MATT: Yeah, you are. That's so awesome.
MARISHA: That I really need to get back to
focusing on. We haven't really had time, let's be honest.
TALIESIN: We have some beautiful art from Amelia
Rett from Portland, Oregon.
MARISHA: Oh my goodness!
MATT: Great coloring.
TALIESIN: Fabulous. There's letters on the back.
This is Pike and Vex over here and this is
Keyleth. There's letters on the back that we will
read at some point.
MARISHA: Those are amazing!
MATT: That's fantastic.
TALIESIN: Oh, and there's a letter.
MATT: That's awesome. This is from Teffany Mae
Malone. Get off me, paper. It says, "Dear Ashley,
"Laura, Liam, Marisha, Matt, Sam, Taliesin, Travis,
Shortly after my last package with the knitted
"fingerless gloves and scarves--"
MARISHA: Which was amazing, and we've both been
wearing those fingerless gloves like crazy.
MATT: "I learned a new knitting technique. It
didn't take me long to come upon the idea that if
"anyone you all would appreciate some dragonscale
gloves."
MARISHA: That's right! She mentioned this online.
No, when we saw her.
MATT: Wow, she made two pairs symbolizing each of
the dragons in the conclave: a smaller pair and a
larger pair to accommodate those with smaller and
larger hands. That's so cool. "There are ten pairs
"included and only eight of you, so feel free to do
whatever you wish with the extra two pairs: You
"can keep them, gift them, donate them for a
giveaway, sell them, whatever you want."
MARISHA: Well, we're not going to sell them.
That's not a thing you do.
MATT: Wow, Teffany. Oh, what! Like, yeah, like.
Holy shit. So that's, Umbrasyl, Raishan.
MARISHA: Well, I feel like I need a pair because
of Raishan, because I am going to be wearing that
bitch very soon.
MATT: Brimscythe and Vorugal. That's so freaking
cool.
TALIESIN: I can't even. They feel really nice.
MARISHA: Put them on!
TALIESIN: Hold on.
MATT: I'm going to put a pair on, too.
TALIESIN: Sounds like the song they play when they
quit sugar on the catering show.
MATT: It kind of does, actually.
MARISHA: Hey Matt would you do me a favor?
MATT: What?
MARISHA: Would you scooch a foot closer to
Taliesin.
MATT: Are you trying to get us both in one shot?
That's fruitless, but sure.
MARISHA: No, that's better. It's better. It's
good.
TALIESIN: I'm more or less buried. Oh my god.
MARISHA: (laughs) Yes!
MATT: See that's what you want to do.
TALIESIN: Oh shit. Oh shit, son. I feel like a
problem.
MARISHA: I feel like those are going to Burning
Man with us.
MATT: Oh yeah.This is so freaking cool.
TALIESIN: We are going ice skating next week.
Let's go down to Pershing Square and start some
shit.
MATT: Tiffany, these are amazing. Thank you so
much!
TALIESIN: They feel slick. Holy cow.
MATT: What did you open?
TALIESIN: I don't know I was distracted by-- If
you need more, I can give you more.
MATT: We are keeping letters in an area so we
don't lose them.
TALIESIN: This goes with this. I was reading
this.
MATT: Should I keep it all organized?
TALIESIN: This is from Mayfly. These are
individual packages so we will distribute them. We
can do ours right now.
MATT: I am going to keep my Thordak gloves.
MARISHA: People said you guys look like
wrestlers.
TALIESIN: That's for Travis.
MATT: You ever do the Mortal Kombat versus
screens? Du-du-dun.
TALIESIN: Oh God. Wait, and Marisha. Here you go.
That's how you toss it.
MATT: Inside this bag is a single yellow six-sided
die.
MARISHA: Inside mine is a green six sided die.
TALIESIN: There is a story to this we will have
to-- I love the paper too.
MATT: It's from Jack. @mayflydecember
MATT and TALIESIN: Thank you, Jack.
TALIESIN: Will will distribute these and the story
to everybody when we see them.
MATT: That's awesome.
TALIESIN: Open. Oh yes.
MATT: Hence dice bags. That's so awesome, thank
you so much for the dice bags. That's fantastic.
TALIESIN: I have been needing-- well I have a
little project, but we won't get into that. I
shouldn't talk about that yet, it's a whole thing.
There's a project.
MATT: There's always a project.
TALIESIN: We are kind of project people.
MATT: This is true.
TALIESIN: Where did the letter go?
MATT: I put the letter over here.
TALIESIN: Put the letter with the bags so we
know.
MATT: Cool.
TALIESIN: I'll go and get more.
MATT: Opening this. This is Games & Gear DLB.
"Dear Matt and Critical Role. Thanks for providing
"our office with hours of entertainment on a weekly
basis. Please accept these brushes as a small
"token of our appreciation. I hope they give you as
many hours of enjoyment painting your miniatures
"as you have given us listening to the adventures
of Vox Machina." What?!
MARISHA: Oh wow.
MATT: "Perhaps we may see some finished miniatures
in the show in the future. Good work, guys. We all
"love the awesome show. We wish you all a very
happy holidays and a very merry Critmas and an
"exceptionally happy new year. Best wishes, the
Games & Gears Crew." They have sent an incredibly
legit collection of miniature painting brushes,
which I'm already getting--
TALIESIN: I can already feel you being sad that
you haven't used.
MATT: I painted the recent Gilmore and Allura
figures, but those are with my old brushes. These
look awesome! They have a leather case in them?!
Oh shit!
TALIESIN: We used to have painting days. Those
were the good--
MATT: I know, back when we had time.
TALIESIN: Back when there was time. I remember.
MATT: Look at this! These brushes have leather
cases on them!
MARISHA: Those are really nice!
MATT: Like, what the--
MARISHA: Oh shit!
TALIESIN: That's kind of intense. You could kill a
man with those.
MATT: I will kill a man with those. These are so
cool! Thank you, guys! Merry Critmas! Holy shit!
TALIESIN: There's no return address. That's-- oh.
MATT: That's so cool!
TALIESIN and MATT: From Chris?
TALIESIN: Of Bearsibel? Bearsabul? Bearsabub? I'm
going to go with Bearsabub. Sure. For Liam that we
we will save for later.
MARISHA: Beazibub?
TALIESIN: Beazibub. As I open very slowly. What?!
Yeah!
MATT: "I find your lack of crits disturbing."
TALIESIN: I think this is a commentary on my last
few games. I've broken this now, just putting it
out there. I've broken the bad streak. This is
awesome. Thank you! Thank you for the black
t-shirts. I'm always a fan of a black t-shirt.
MATT: I'm going to try not to butcher this. This
is from Elaine Kavagnan. Kavaganan?
TALIESIN: Dude, thank you so much! I'll make sure
Liam gets his.
MATT: Here is a-- ooh, it's an actual wrapped
present! That's nice! Here are cards. Inside the
cards-- I don't know why I'm talking like Mrs.
Doubtfire. Oh whoa! Elaine-- is a
work-in-progress. It's a scarf for Pike with
Sarenrae on it and everything. It's a picture of
it. That's in-process. "Especially at Critmas,"
Christmas. I keep wanting to say Critmas time.
"Especially a Christmas time, it's the thought
that counts." And then the pop-up goes, "Great!"
It says, "Hi guys, Love you all at Critical Role
so much! I'll never forget that day I randomly
"clicked on a random YouTube video for episode one.
It's been one hell of a ride. Hoping that ride
"will continue for a long time. I knit and crochet
when my anxiety gets really bad, so I wanted to
"make something for you all to show my appreciation
for the show, for all you do. In this package is a
"shawl for Vex. It took me a long time to find the
perfect yarn that would fit her color scheme. I'm
"working on stuff for the rest of the cast. Sorry,
I'm really slow." Don't apologize. You guys are
ridiculous. "I really hope you like it. Happy
Holidays! From, Your Fan Elaine. P.S. I'm working
"on a scarf for Pike, which is pictured there."
That's so cool! Holy shit. Should we hold off on
this and let Laura open it?
TALIESIN: Yeah. We should hold off and let Laura
open it.
MATT: All right, we'll let Laura open this. Thank
you so much!
TALIESIN: I have a pile with your name on it over
here.
MATT: Oh no.
TALIESIN: I will open things that have other names
on them.
MARISHA: I really want some candy.
TALIESIN: More candy?
MARISHA: I haven't eaten any candy yet.
TALIESIN: This is for Travis.
MARISHA: I want to eat candy.
TALIESIN: Oh shit. That's highly entertaining.
I'll make sure that Travis sees that.
MATT: Who's it from?
TALIESIN: It's from Terry in Illinois. Terry in
Illinois, we'll make sure that-- I'm trying not to
read last names A. Because it seems [inaudible],
and B. Because I can't. I'm terrible.
MATT: Fair enough.
TALIESIN: I'll make sure this package gets to
Travis. I'm calling that his pile now.
MATT: This package is from Merritt Polai? Polay?
TALIESIN: Ooh, this came from far away!
MARISHA: That's a very pink--
MATT: This is for you.
TALIESIN: Wow, that's really pink!
MATT: Got presents here for Sam.
MARISHA: It's so pink! It matches your hair!
MATT: Death Wish Coffee for the Pit Crew.
TALIESIN: Oh, Death Wish is great!
MARISHA: Nice! What is it?
TALIESIN: I don't know. I was just missing-- I
used to have a pair of swimming trunks that were
this color.
MARISHA: Open it! I want to know what's in the
fluorescent pink package! Oh, Matt, turn around
the mug. Turn around the mug. Did you see? It has
an insignia on it.
TALIESIN: He's doing a thing to it.
MARISHA: Did you see the insignia on it?
MATT: Yeah! I saw it.
MARISHA: Sorry, I was distracted by the
fluorescent pink.
MATT: Yeah, it'll do that.
TALIESIN: What? What is this?
MATT: Wild cherry tea. I got awesome gifts here to
distribute to the cast. Thank you so much! I think
I'll go fill that in a little bit, actually.
TALIESIN: Oh shit.
MARISHA: What is it? They're vials of color. Why
are there vials of color?
TALIESIN: (laughs) Oh wow. It's ink and I believe
some nail color. This is some very colorful nail
color. Yes, it will get used.
MARISHA: Wait, what's the ink for?
TALIESIN: It's pen ink.
MARISHA: Really?
TALIESIN: Believe so. Yep, this is pen ink. It's
some really intense, multicolor pen ink.
MARISHA: That's awesome.
TALIESIN: That works out well with other things
that happened this weekend.
MARISHA: Would that work with that glass pen?
TALIESIN: No.
MATT: More in order from Eddie Chandler? Guy who
sent the Talks Machina thing earlier. The shot glass?
MARISHA: Oh, he sent more?
MATT: Apparently.
TALIESIN: Thank you very much, this will get used
for something awesome. I'm going to put the bag,
because I actually like the package a lot.
MARISHA: Pile of candy! Just tempting me!
MATT: Whoa. "Dear Critical Role, I found your show
a couple months ago and spent my evenings watching
"all the episodes to get caught up. Who needs real
life?" I feel you on that. "Thank you for giving
"us such a great show in its depth of creativity
and vibrance provided by an awesome GM, coupled
"with the rest of you adding your intensities and
emotions to characters. One of the early episodes,
"in the Critmas section in the end, somebody had
sent you a bottle of libation. Also during the
battle in Cloak and Dagger, Taliesin was saying he
needed a drink, and at the end of that episode,
Laura was saying you all should go get drinks
because Percy had died. To that end, I'm sending a
two-part gift, one with this note, and the other
coming from overseas. Hopefully they arrive within
a short time of each other. If the drink arrives
before these, it's a bottle of Royal Dragon
vodka." Which, it did arrive and we haven't opened
yet because we were waiting for a specific event.
MARISHA: That arrived. That's in the kitchen right
now. We were told we couldn't open it until we'd
killed all the dragons, so as soon as diseased
bitchy-bitch is--
MATT: Diseased Bitchy-Bitch is now her official
title.
MARISHA: --dead, then we can, you know. Sick!
MATT: It's a whole box of Critical Role shot
glasses.
MATT: Thank you, Eddie! Our livers cry in
anticipation. Pardon me.
MARISHA: Just like that?
MATT: That's fantastic. I'll be sure to save the
letter for the others.
MARISHA: Hells yes.
MATT: Thank you so much, Eddie. Those will go to
use, don't worry.
TALIESIN: This is one of those letters to save for
later. Roadmouse from Poland, we got your letter,
and the mouse is adorable.
MATT: Hi, Roadmouse! This is from Japan.
TALIESIN: Thank you, Roadmouse.
MATT: This is a package from Japan!
MARISHA: It came from the other side of the
world!
TALIESIN: We've got Poland and Japan right now.
MATT: Marisha, you know how you wanted more
candy?
MARISHA: Oh!
MATT: Now you get a bunch of Japanese candy.
MARISHA: Australian candy and Japanese candy?
MATT: Candy from around the world!
MARISHA: Oh, man, it's the best!
MATT: It's cider candies? What?!
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, those are great, I love those.
MARISHA: What are they? Cyber?
TALIESIN: They've got a fizzy thing to them. You
know those like--
(knocking)
TALIESIN: Oh, god! No! No!
(laughter)
MARISHA: I don't know, man!
MATT: It's unlocked, Brian!
BRIAN: Are we on the Internet?
MATT: We got dragon scales.
BRIAN: What?!
MATT: I know, what the shit?
MARISHA: Brian Foster, everybody.
BRIAN and MARISHA: Look at all the candy!
MATT: Did you see the shot glasses you got?
BRIAN: Dude, let me see this. Hi, guys!
MARISHA: They're all saying, "Brian, yes!"
BRIAN: I was down the street at Paper Heroes.
MARISHA: Oh really?
TALIESIN: They're having a--
BRIAN: Yeah, check it out!
MARISHA: Did they hang up our poster?
TALIESIN: I don't know if they hung up our
poster.
BRIAN: No, Faux, F-A-U-X, he said to tell you guys
they haven't found a frame big enough for it yet.
He was so worried, he's like, "Tell Matt if he
comes in and he doesn't see it, it's because we're
"trying to find--"
MATT: Dude! It's not an expectation; I was happy
to give it for them.
BRIAN: I told him that you would be sorely
disappointed and you would never shop there again.
MATT: You're such an asshole.
TALIESIN: One of our favorite breakfast places
used to have an amazing toy store next door and
they closed and we're very sad. Then a game store
opened and we were kind of happy.
BRIAN: That's cool. That's where that place is?
MARISHA: Yeah, it used to be a big kid toy store.
BRIAN: This is the coolest thing I've ever seen.
MARISHA: Right?
MATT: Yeah, dude.
BRIAN: Fill this with Goldschlger at once.
MATT: That's a terrible idea.
BRIAN: I love that your guys' Christmas tree is
still up.
MARISHA: Yeah, look, man.
MATT: I can guarantee you, it's obviously a
conscious decision. This delightful box of
Japanese gifts came with a letter. "You guys have
kept me through some of the biggest changes in my
"life over the past year, and they have both
terrible, wonderful, and nowhere in-between. So I
"thought I'd return the favor. I made these boxes
on that theme, terrible and wonderful, along with
"some things that can only be found on my island. I
hope they bring you a few moments of joy in the
"midst of stress as you all have done so often for
me. Word of advice, don't trust it if it's cute.
"From Haz, aka tinyfierce. P.S. I actually started
GMing again thanks to you, Matt." Awesome. "P.P.S.
"But tell Taliesin that he's my favorite, thanks."
BRIAN: What?!
TALIESIN: I know, it's cool.
MARISHA: Yeah, we all know that.
BRIAN: Another one of those, "Taliesin is my
favorite" people? That's cool. He's mine, too.
TALIESIN: I have a cult.
MARISHA: You do have a cult.
MATT: Fashion candies.
MARISHA: What?!
MATT: I don't know! But we have a box of them!
MARISHA: Fashion candies?
TALIESIN: Wait, I've got to read really quickly.
This is from Steph_Smo, stickynotesfromparis. It's
a picture of her puppy, who is adorable. Oh my
god! That's the end of me with a Darth Vader--
MATT: Marisha, here's your Japanese candy
package.
MARISHA: Oh, she gave me my own? Yes!
TALIESIN: "This puppy I adopted from a shelter and
her name is Lady Kima." It is Lady Kima the puppy.
TALIESIN and MARISHA: Oh!
TALIESIN: She sent us a bunch of chocolate
because, obviously, we have a problem. I'm already
setting aside the chocolate I want.
MATT: I was trying to get rid of the holiday
weight. Not any more.
TALIESIN: There's a personalized [inaudible] that
tries to keep your blood sugar up. She also sent
us this really cool coloring book. There's just
tons of stuff. There's a bunch of personalized
stuff for everybody, but chocolate and a puppy?
MATT: "Chocolate and a Puppy" by the way, is our
new sitcom show.
MARISHA: Aw, you can't go wrong with "Chocolate
and a Puppy."
TALIESIN: And then there's one for Marisha from
Oxfam Unwrapped.
MATT: Aw, are these letters for everyone?
MARISHA: Oxfam!
MATT: Aw!
TALIESIN: It's a-- as I'm sniffling so much.
MATT: It's that season.
TALIESIN: Yeah, it is that season when we're all
having a little bit of a--
MATT: These are all letters for the cast?
TALIESIN: Yeah, these are all--
MATT: I'm going to go put these in the cast pile
and make sure everyone gets these. Travis as well, perfect.
TALIESIN: This is an insane amount of chocolate--
actually, I pulled one out that I'm stealing. I'm
stealing one, and there's nothing that can be
done. Where'd it go?
MARISHA: Yeah! Oxfam!
MATT: All right, do you want to trade off,
Marisha?
TALIESIN: Actually, I'll trade off. It should be
my turn, anyway.
MARISHA: Sure.
MATT: Okay. I think Taliesin's going to take the
phone here in a second. I'm going to make some tea
real fast because my throat's starting to go.
MARISHA: I know. Is it something in the air or is
it just because?
MATT: It might be something in the air, I don't
know.
TALIESIN: It's not like the way that you watch the
little cold grow. It's starting to happen to
everybody two days ago.
MATT: Oh man.
MARISHA: Dagon's talking a lot now if people want
to see her, so I'm going to bring in Dagon.
MATT: All right, you sit the fuck down Marisha and
open some presents while I make some tea.
TALIESIN: More tea. Put the kettle on.
BRIAN: Wait, what am I doing?
TALIESIN: You're going to be opening some
presents. You're going to be grabbing presents--
BRIAN: Can I play with this X-Acto knife?
TALIESIN: Actually, we have a safety X-Acto
knife.
BRIAN: They haven't let me around one of these
since the AIDS.
MARISHA: Matt?
MATT: What?
MARISHA: Come look where Dagon is.
TALIESIN: Did he go into the fireplace again?
BRIAN: Okay, let's begin.
TALIESIN: Oh wait, hold on.
MARISHA: I don't know! Wait, did you know she was
here?
TALIESIN: No.
MARISHA: How did you get there, you little shit.
There she is. Dagon, you bad bird.
MATT: How did she even--?
TALIESIN: I've already claimed those,
motherfucker!
BRIAN: No, I'm just trying them on.
TALIESIN: You want to feel what it's like for one
moment.
BRIAN: Wow.
TALIESIN: We'll have a Dagon on camera in one
second.
BRIAN: This is what happens to my butt if I don't
moisturize.
TALIESIN: And we have a Dagon.
BRIAN: Hi.
MARISHA: There you go.
TALIESIN: Dagon was hiding in the fireplace.
MARISHA: Yeah, a great place for a bird.
TALIESIN: That is a perfect--
BRIAN: In the fireplace?
MARISHA: She was on the glass in the fireplace in
there. I don't even know how she got there, little shit.
BRIAN: You are a mischievous little fucker.
MARISHA: She is, actually.
TALIESIN: Oh, Boris the Spider! Yes. Hi, guys.
BRIAN: I think Dagon ate Boris.
TALIESIN: They want to-- Well, he's got a bird,
we'll make him do it later.
BRIAN: Is that the going theory? What's the
theory?
TALIESIN: That the spiders follow the fly.
BRIAN and TALIESIN: (singing) Perhaps she'll die.
(laughter)
BRIAN: Give me something to cut with this.
MATT: Yes, here, take this.
BRIAN: Before I eat Dagon.
MATT: Deliver you via dragon scale.
MARISHA: Will you hand me something else?
BRIAN: I didn't even know you guys were doing this
today. Is this spontaneous?
TALIESIN: Well, I don't want to say putting it
off, but we've been trying to find an appropriate
moment, and today is the closest thing that
vaguely resembles some free time that any of us
have had.
BRIAN: Yeah. I know, that's why I was-- I'm
driving all over town--
TALIESIN: Oh, Dale, what's up? I miss you, too.
Were you at the Sailor Moon party last night?
There was a big Sailor Moon party last night,
guys, that was supposed to be amazing. I was like,
no. I was tired, so I watched Westworld. I don't
know if Gilmore got any experience from Thordak. I
would hope so. It only seems fair.
MATT: You guys split the experience points with
everyone who helped.
TALIESIN: Does that mean if we kill all the NPCs
at the end of a big attack, we all get more
experience points?
MATT: One way to find out, Taliesin.
TALIESIN: Okay, just--
MARISHA: Oh, this is from Matt Gostick.
BRIAN: "Hey, Sam."
MARISHA: He's one of our OG Critters.
MATT: Nice!
TALIESIN: I like that we have OG Critters.
BRIAN: This is for Sam. "Hey, Sam. I hope this got
to you intact. Enjoy. Chuck." @productiGhoul
TALIESIN: It's probably spice. Should we leave it
for Sam, then?
BRIAN: Yeah, let's leave it for Sam. I feel like
it's--
TALIESIN: It's spice.
(laughter)
BRIAN: It feels like--
TALIESIN: I'm worried about opening any package
for Sam after this week.
BRIAN: I think it's meatloaf.
TALIESIN: (singing) I would do anything for--
Yeah, it's actually meatloaf.
BRIAN: I wish. You guys know how much I love
Meatloaf.
TALIESIN: Do you love Meatloaf?
BRIAN: Dude, I have seen him three times. I've met
him once.
TALIESIN: I've met him a couple times, he's pretty
cool.
BRIAN: Meatloaf's the reason why I became a
singer.
TALIESIN: I had no idea.
BRIAN: People laugh at that, but it's true. Nobody
has more emotion in their voice.
TALIESIN: I'm a Rocky Horror kid, man. There's no
way not to love Meatloaf.
MARISHA: I've always wanted someone to sing
Paradise by the Dashboard Light with me at
karaoke, but I could never find anybody.
BRIAN: I'm your man.
MARISHA: Really, are you serious?
BRIAN: I'm your fucking man.
MARISHA: Oh my god, this is amazing, Foster.
BRIAN: Steve Jarosz and I-- you know Steve Jarosz.
We sang "I'll Do Anything for Love" at the Saints
Row wrap party five years ago, maybe. He sang the
girl's part and I sang the main part.
TALIESIN: That's amazing.
BRIAN: These are some dice for Sam, too. I opened
this, oops. Oh, these are really nice.
TALIESIN: I love the notion that at a dive bar in
Toronto-- Dude, thank you. (laughs) This is not
that meeting, dude. God, the comment section's
really funny right now.
BRIAN: There's so much stuff, you guys.
MARISHA: I know, man.
TALIESIN: Apples and oranges--
MARISHA: Speaking of, he got us cocktail thematic
teas. Pineapple mimosa, raspberry mojito, and
sangria.
TALIESIN: Oh.
BRIAN: What? Tea teas?
MARISHA: They're tea, but it's--
BRIAN: Put that with my things. Can I try one of
these?
MARISHA: Yeah.
BRIAN: Are these Japanese candies?
TALIESIN: They are.
MARISHA: There like fizzy cider candies.
TALIESIN: Thank you for the hair love, guys. I
think we did Pravana hair colors on--
MARISHA: Reese's Pieces.
TALIESIN: I got a clear dye that makes your hair
glow in blacklight. I'm going to try it out and
let you guys know.
BRIAN: Do you do it yourself?
TALIESIN: No, no, I have a couple professional
friends and a couple non-professional friends,
depending on who's available.
BRIAN: You have friends in every profession.
TALIESIN: Man, it makes life exciting. Guys, is it
getting a little dark, by the way? Or should I do
something about the light?
BRIAN: We can make it really dark.
MARISHA: The sun is setting.
BRIAN: (singing) The sun is setting.
MARISHA: We could always just turn the lights on.
MATT: Is it too dark on this? Can you go ahead and
just tap?
TALIESIN: Oh, just tap and it'll--
BRIAN: Laura Bailey.
MATT: Also, my phone's pretty dark, so it's okay.
BRIAN: Hang on, Dagon, we're going for a ride.
TALIESIN: No one seems to be complaining.
MATT: Good, good.
BRIAN: Laura Bailey?
TALIESIN: Laura gets a lot of love. There's more.
No worries, there's always more.
BRIAN: Come here, come here.
MATT: We have from Tod Dekine, it looks like.
BRIAN: Smoking that Dekine bud.
MATT: As well as M.J. Johnson gifts, both for
Laura Bailey. We'll going to make sure those get
delivered to Laura. Those were received.
MARISHA: The Pot of Gold is for Laura.
TALIESIN: Oh, I love Pot of Gold. That stuff's
good!
MARISHA: I know.
TALIESIN and MARISHA: It's one of the few good
American chocolate candies.
BRIAN: We don't have to deliver that to her.
MARISHA: The Reese's Pieces are for Travis. "I saw
you devour the first batch, so here's another."
TALIESIN: Instead of doing them all together,
lights, just put them on maximum.
MARISHA: This is from Gostick, which he said,
"a.k.a. the inferior Matt." Not true, Matt
Gostick, you are not--
BRIAN: Oh my God.
MARISHA: There are no--
BRIAN: Almost fell over.
TALIESIN: It's like the Borg, they're kind of all
equal; they share a hive mind.
MARISHA: Don't fall over with a box cutter and a
bird.
BRIAN: Wouldn't be my first time.
TALIESIN: Onto my tea. My tea is behind you, I
might add.
BRIAN: What?
MARISHA: And the tea is for us.
TALIESIN: We didn't make it to Dickens Fair this
year. That really sucked.
BRIAN: Aw, we wanted to go so bad! We tried to
make it work, but we couldn't. There's so many
people, we couldn't find a weekend that-- It's too
close to the holidays.
MARISHA: We need to plan it.
TALIESIN: We all just fell apart and sobbed.
MATT: Want me to take over and you can sit with
them?
TALIESIN: Sure, it's getting a little fuzzy
anyway.
MATT: I'll refocus.
MARISHA: Where is the other--
BRIAN: You're tickling my neck!
MATT: Mercer, back at the camera.
BRIAN: Matt, Marisha.
MARISHA: Ooh.
BRIAN: Meghan. (singing) Meghan Levon!
MARISHA: Meghan already sent a present. Meghan,
you're so silly.
TALIESIN: He's fired.
BRIAN: Liam Oberon.
MARISHA: Liam Oberon's a cool name.
TALIESIN: Actually, that's pretty cool.
BRIAN: Mary. Oh, I'm going to see Mary tonight or
tomorrow. I can take this to her.
MATT: Yeah, go and--
BRIAN: Mary lives down the street from me.
MATT: Yeah!
TALIESIN: A lot of just straight letters that we--
I try and read a letter a day. I'm making my way
through it. Thank you guys.
MARISHA: This is from Colin from Blueford,
Pennsylvania. Aw, he sent little knitted dragons
for each one of the Chroma Conclave.
MATT: Okay, that is awesome.
BRIAN: Look at this guy.
MARISHA: Look at this! Oh my goodness!
BRIAN: Look at the little tongue!
MATT: That's amazing.
TALIESIN: Holy cow.
MATT: Dagon, do you like the Chroma Conclave?
ALL: No!
MARISHA: Kill it.
MATT: Dagon is not a fan
MARISHA: Yeah, kill it. Kill that dragon.
BRAIN: Attack! Yes! Nibble at the eyes.
MARISHA: Oh, here's--
TALIESIN: This is for Travis, so we'll save that
for later.
MATT: Wait, did we lose visual? Chatroom, can
people still see or did we lose visual?
MARISHA: These are cute as shit.
BRIAN: That is adorable. Who sent those?
MARISHA: Those are so cute. Colin from
Pennsylvania.
MATT: We'll swap cameras and see if it fi-- We're
good? Never mind.
TALIESIN: (singing) I'm putting Travis's stuff
aside.
MARISHA: "To the cast of Critical Role: enclosed
in this box are four of the most dangerous
"creatures in all of Exandria, shrunk down into
plushie cute forms, of course! However, two have
"been vanquished, and just like getting the scales
and teeth as trophies, these guys get to go home
"with the appropriate dragon-killer of Vox Machina.
Which means: Travis gets Umbrasyl, Laura gets
"Vorugal--" Oh, this is cute, "Travis gets Umbrasyl
the Yarn Devourer, Laura gets Vorugal the Knitted
"Doom, whoever gets the killing blow on the
corresponding dragon gets the plushie counterpart."
MATT: That's cool.
MARISHA: "There is still Thordak the Crocheted
King," which goes to Raishan, which we now know.
Or to--
MATT and MARISHA: Liam.
MARISHA: "And Raishan the Darned Deceiver."
BRIAN: Aw.
MARISHA: That's so cute. Which we don't know yet.
TALIESIN: Nope, that's one still up for grabs.
MATT: That's adorable.
BRIAN: This Japanese candy is really good. But am
I supposed to be seeing my aunt outside the window?
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, she's there.
BRIAN: Or is that an effect of the--
TALIESIN: It's fascinating, too, 'cause you don't
have an aunt.
BRIAN: What's weird is I have no aunts.
TALIESIN: Yeah. And yet, there she is.
BRIAN: No family in this continent. Oh, look at
this. What's this?
MATT: Oh, your wife made those between her ER
shifts? That's amazing!
MARISHA and TALIESIN: What?
TALIESIN: No!
BRIAN: Critical Role coloring book 2016.
TALIESIN: Oh no!
BRIAN: Hold on, let me see if there's a note
saying who it's from. Oh, there is!
MARISHA: Where'd the other box cutter go?
BRIAN: Right here! Or, he's got one.
MARISHA: But there's two!
MATT: There are two around.
TALIESIN: Not sitting on one. No. I'm just
sitting-- Oh, here's a box cutter.
BRIAN: Maybe that's why my taint is bleeding.
MATT: Aw, Marisha, you are Stacy's spirit animal.
MARISHA: Aw. I'm someone's spirit animal.
BRIAN: "Dear Matt: I wasn't able to get everyone's
copy out in time for Critmas. Unfortunately, I
"have been dealing with pretty heavy family issues.
This is your copy, and everyone else is about a
"week behind. Have fun. Love, Ellie."
MATT: Aw, thank you, Ellie.
TALIESIN: With the speed we're at, it's entirely
possible they're in here.
BRIAN: "Please accept this gift from me and from
the Critters for all you do for others, for
"bringing us all together as the biggest family on
the earth." Ain't that the truth. This is so dope.
MATT: That is amazing. Coloring book is from all
the Critters and composed by their editor, Ellie Bright.
TALIESIN: Oh my god.
BRIAN: Oh, Ashley's going to love this.
MATT: These are so cool.
BRIAN: Wow, that's beautiful.
MATT: I love it.
BRIAN: Wow.
MATT: Show off some more of the art to the camera.
BRIAN: Dude.
MATT: That's incredible.
BRIAN: I'll turn it closer. That's really great.
Man. Ha, I love it.
MATT: Bench pressing.
BRIAN: Look at those abs. Oh, wow! That is so
dope.
MATT: Wow, that's so pretty!
MARISHA: That's amazing!
BRIAN: Get your fine tipped coloring pencils or
pens out.
MATT: Hell yeah. So cool!
BRIAN: "Percy explains a project--" I'm reading
upside down, "a project only a few really follow."
MATT: Sounds about right.
MARISHA: It's okay. You don't have to make
excuses. We're not angry.
BRIAN: I don't read good. Hey, how'd you get over
there?
TALIESIN: We got a bunch of fabulous friendship
bracelets from KatieTheFlyingCat1, including ones
for Will and Mary and Brian, because Brian is left
out.
MATT: Not for long.
BRIAN: It says that?
TALIESIN: Yeah, it does, right there.
BRIAN: Oh, that's so sweet! Brian's not left out.
TALIESIN: Although I don't see yours here. I guess
she forgot it. So sad.
MATT: Brian wasn't included to begin with.
BRIAN: My dad forgot a bunch of stuff growing up,
too.
TALIESIN: Keep rubbing it in, man. Keep rubbing it
in.
BRIAN: Like my soccer games.
MARISHA: These are awesome! Oh, these are so cute.
MATT: These are awesome.
MARISHA: I haven't had a friendship bracelet in so
long.
TALIESIN: Here's one for Matt.
MATT: Yes! Look at that. FPS Mercer view of my
friendship bracelet. Thank you!
MARISHA: I'm going to have to get this on.
TALIESIN: I know, dude. It's like we're back in
summer camp.
MARISHA: I love friendship bracelets.
TALIESIN: I do, too!
MARISHA: I like seeing how long they last.
TALIESIN: Yeah, like, how long can I wear this in
the shower?
MARISHA: How long can I wear this in the shower,
exactly.
BRIAN: I love bracelets.
MATT: Oh shit. The coloring book was composed by
the director of the Crit Role short films that
we've seen.
TALIESIN: Oh shit! Those have been really great.
BRIAN: That makes sense as to why the art is
kickass as fuck. Marsha Ray.
TALIESIN: Is that a Marsha? Who's this? Oh, this
is for me.
BRIAN: Columbus Zoo and Aquarium?
TALIESIN: It's a fish.
MARISHA: Yeah, tilapia.
BRIAN: It's dinner, Dagon.
MARISHA: This is from Shay. "I can't begin to
express to you all how much enjoyment I have
"received from the hundreds of hours of this show.
I wanted to show my gratitude in the crafty way I
"could, so please enjoy. P.S. ones for the crew are
forthcoming." So she is sending more. I'm sure one
for you, as well.
MATT: We do still have your bead bracelets, by the
way. They were awesome.
MARISHA: Here, Matt.
MATT: Oh, I fell.
MARISHA: Oh jeez!
MATT: A whole piece of furniture moved forward.
Sorry, guys. You got to have a front side view of
me stumbling.
BRIAN: No way. You guys are going to flip out at
this. "This is a certificate from the Columbus Zoo
"and Aquarium that officially recognizes Laura
Bailey and Trinket as the adoptive friends of our
"black bears--"
MATT: That is amazing!
BRIAN: "And as important partners in our efforts
to care for our zoo animals and wildlife around
"the world." It's signed by Jack Hanna.
MARISHA: Who is Jack Hanna?
BRIAN: The animals guy. Remember the show?
MARISHA: Oh.
BRIAN: Look! They sent a little black bear, a
postcard from the zoo, and then there's a little
note here. Let me read it.
TALIESIN: If you would ever like to see the black
bear again--
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Carry on, carry on.
BRIAN: No, let's go there. "Dear Laura and
Trinket--"
MARISHA: You will support black bears.
BRIAN: "You've been given a very special gift: a
black bear adoption from the Columbus Zoo and
"Aquarium. This gift provides enrichment activities
and healthy food and treats to our black bears. We
"hope you can visit them soon. This adoption gift
is from Elizabeth Hammons."
MATT and BRIAN: Thank you, Elizabeth!
MARISHA: Thank you!
MATT: That's so rad.
MARISHA: These are amazing.
BRIAN: That is so cool.
MARISHA: Keyleth's circlet. What's yours?
TALIESIN: Mine is little glasses.
MARISHA: Your glasses with Orthax.
TALIESIN and MARISHA: Glasses with sad smoke.
TALIESIN: Thank you!
MATT: Those cross stitches are so cute.
TALIESIN: Cross-stitch, man. There's a time.
MARISHA: Oh my goodness. Oh, are you on a rampage?
You on a little birdy rampage?
MATT: Are you on a rampage?
TALIESIN: Just grab whatever.
MARISHA: Go to daddy.
MATT: Get them, Dagon. Dagon's just--
MARISHA: She wants Dad.
MATT: She wants me?
BRIAN: Ooh, this one's from the IRS! I'm just
kidding.
MATT: Thank you, Dagon. Dagon, say hi to all the
Critters out there.
MATT and MARISHA: Pew pew!
MATT: Dagon!
DAGON: (chirping)
MATT: Pew pew!
MATT: Pew!
DAGON: (chirping)
MARISHA and MATT: Pew!
MATT and MARISHA: Pew pew!
DAGON: (chirping)
MATT: Dagon!
MATT and MARISHA: Pew pew!
DAGON: (chirping)
MATT: Dagon!
MATT: She's talking to you guys. Dagon!
DAGON: (chirping)
MATT: Pew pew!
MATT: Dagon!
DAGON: (chirping)
MATT: Hey buddy!
TALIESIN: Oh this is from Nuri McBride.
DAGON: (chirping)
TALIESIN: Nice.
MATT: Okay, you can stay on my shoulder, Dagon.
MARISHA: Aww! Is this someone else?
TALIESIN: Aww. Thank you, Nuri. This is great.
MARISHA: Yeah, Nuri. Oh wow.
TALIESIN: May this year not be a dumpster fire.
Man.
BRIAN: Amen.
MATT: Amen to that.
MARISHA: Donated to rescue.org. "I tried to do a
Critical Role themed donations gift, but instead
"I'd like to thank you for being a badass chick on
the internet by donating to help a refugee mother
"give birth in safety and a $50 donation to the
Nature Conservancy," on top of that which is incredible!
BRIAN: That's dope.
MARISHA: Keep kicking ass in 2017. Love, Nuri.
Thank you so much!
MATT: Nuri, thank you so much! These are
incredible. Nuri McBride made a $50 donation to
First Book in our name, too, which is my chosen
charity, this is amazing. Thank you so much, Nuri!
MARISHA: Oh my goodness. That's so generous!
TALIESIN: Nuri, thank you very much. That's really
nice.
BRIAN: Is it illegal to burn all the trash?
TALIESIN: Only if you don't accidentally set it on
fire, if that's what's happening.
BRIAN: I do a lot of things by accident.
MARISHA: It's 2017, who knows.
TALIESIN: All bets are off now.
MARISHA: All bets are off. Where's the box
cutter?
BRIAN: Oh, here.
MARISHA: I want my friend, Mr. Box Cutter.
BRIAN: Safety first.
MATT: There we go. It's important. Make sure you
don't cut yourself.
TALIESIN: This is the silliest gift ever. Zack,
Tico, hi.
MATT: Oh, it's from Tico?
TALIESIN: It's so silly I don't even know if we
should show it.
MATT: I think you should, then.
TALIESIN: But, like--
MARISHA: Uh-oh.
TALIESIN: I'll show part of it. Hi guys!
MARISHA: I will utilize that in a couple hours.
TALIESIN: I know you will, which is why I laughed
my ass off right now. I was like oh, that's going
to be gone before the day is up.
MATT: Safety forced.
TALIESIN: Thanks Tico, thanks Zack.
MATT: That's amazing. Thank you guys!
MARISHA: Oh, thank you.
BRIAN: And Ashley's is going home with me.
TALIESIN: Yeah, there's a little pile for Ashley
over here.
BRIAN: This note says, very quickly, Four score
and se-- "To the members of Vox Machina, and the
"cast of Critical Role, Word of your heroic deeds
against the Chroma Conclave have traveled in
"excited whispers to my ear. Never have I heard of
a more intrepid band of warriors. To aid your
"efforts I have sent along a gilded gift as a sign
of my support and excitement for your future
"endeavors. May it aid you in the war to come. May
luck be ever in your stars, one of your many fans.
"P.S. Thank you for bringing to life this wonderful
tale. It has truly been a blessing in my life."
And they sent--
TALIESIN: That's pretty gilded.
BRIAN and MATT: An ancient brass dragon.
MATT: That is awesome.
MARISHA and BRIAN: J'mon!
MATT: J'mon Sa'Ord!
MARISHA: Meghan LeVaughn sent more journals for
us. Good things are happening journals. Yeah. So
whoever would like a journal, those are from
Meghan. Because Meghan is sweet and enjoys
spoiling us so much.
BRIAN: Meghan needs her own jingle.
TALIESIN: A Meghan LeVaughn jingle?
BRIAN: (singing) Oh Meghan LeVaughn!
MATT: What you got, Taliesin?
TALIESIN: I got a letter, at the moment, so I'm
just going through that.
MATT: Oh, gotcha. We've actually made a pretty
decent dent.
TALIESIN: We have made a decent dent. I don't
normally get delved into letters on-screen, but
this got-- This is from Amanda. I will finish this
later.
BRIAN: J'mon.
TALIESIN: Oh, are we mounting--
MATT: What kind of bird is it?
Dagon is a cinnamon green-cheeked
conure. She is adorable.
TALIESIN: Oh my god, there's still more.
BRIAN: This is dope.
MATT: Where is she? There she is. Hi, Dagon.
BRIAN: Brass dragon!
MATT: Dagon, don't get angry.
TALIESIN and BRIAN: That funky dragon!
MARISHA: Thank you so much, Amanda, for
the letter. It was amazing also meeting you at Gen
Con, and she said she was looking forward to your
Halloween episodes of Signal Boost, Taliesin. I'm
assuming she has watched them--
TALIESIN: This must have come from the box
of--
MATT: Things that got lost.
TALIESIN: Things that got lost at the studio.
MATT: Yes, most likely.
BRIAN: Signal Boost!
MARISHA: Yes, but thank you so much, Amanda.
TALIESIN: There is a box of things that
got lost at the studio.
MATT: Thank you, Meghan. All right,
Marisha, the journals are for you and me.
MARISHA: Aww! Thank you, Meghan.
TALIESIN: Is she on stream right now?
MATT: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Hi, dear. Hi.
MARISHA: I'm going to go get another box.
TALIESIN: Well we got the-- whoa.
BRIAN: Everything's fine.
TALIESIN: You're fine.
MATT: Good job, Brian, good job.
BRIAN: Class and caress and ease, that's me.
Okay, this is wrapped so pretty.
MATT: Aww, Medley's a great name for a conure.
TALIESIN: Yeah, no attack attack.
BRIAN: Attack, attack?
MATT: There is more Signal Boost coming.
They're shooting tomorrow, I think.
BRIAN: Signal Boost!
MARISHA: Yep, shooting tomorrow.
Brian's going to come host an episode.
BRIAN: Brian's going to come host an
episode next month. Can I signal boost Signal Boost?
MARISHA: I mean, I think you're
technically doing it right now, yeah.
BRIAN: There you go.
MATT: They're asking how's Denise.
BRIAN: Denise is great. She had a good break. When
she got back, she was less agitated with me than usual.
TALIESIN: She had her sass back.
BRIAN: There's so much fanart coming in of people
speculating what she looks like.
TALIESIN: Really?
BRIAN: Yeah, that's why we're
having--
TALIESIN: I'm so excited now.
BRIAN: That's why we're not going to show her for the
longest time, because it's so much fun. Plus she--
MARISHA: It's going to be like--
BRIAN: She loves all the love she's getting.
MARISHA: When it finally happens, when KISS
finally went on air without their makeup on.
That's what it's going to be like.
BRIAN: I told her the other night, I
was showing her a lot of the stuff that people
were saying on the internet, like everyone who
emails in fanart or gifs, they're like, hey, say
hi to Denise for me. She wouldn't believe it. I
showed her--
TALIESIN: This box is from pindragon, on Twitter.
MATT: Whoa!
TALIESIN: I believe. Was this the blue thing?
BRIAN: Peg Leg Porker, Tennessee straight bourbon whiskey,
aged eight years. I love you guys, I have had a great
time. Peyton and I are going to drink in the alley
behind your house. Wow, this is really fancy.
MARISHA: Holy shit, wow, man.
TALIESIN: Save this for later.
BRIAN: Let's make mistakes.
TALIESIN: Boy, that should be our calling card.
BRIAN: Yeah, right? Let's make mistakes.
TALIESIN: Has anyone nailed the
description of her perfectly yet? No one?
BRIAN: She's got such a unique--
TALIESIN: It's like the opening of The Good Place,
where this one guy who guessed 96% right with the afterlife.
BRIAN: Yeah.
TALIESIN: 1972 on mushrooms.
BRIAN: You got the note that was attached to it,
right?
TALIESIN: Yeah, I have it.
MATT: Who's it from? Who's the note?
BRIAN: It was from-- I was
distracted by the word whiskey.
MATT: Yeah, that happens.
TALIESIN: It was pindragon.
MATT: Pendragon, that's right.
TALIESIN: Pin.
MATT: Thank you, pindragon.
MARISHA: Oh yeah, pindragon
has sent stuff before, right?
MATT: Yeah. Dagon.
BRIAN: There's a Magic prerelease today.
That's why the comic stores and the game stores
were so full of people.
MATT: Oh, that makes sense.
BRIAN: Because I went to Emerald Nights and
The Paper Heroes.
TALIESIN: I thought I saw an old friend
of mine there, too. We went to Early Bite.
BRIAN: Magic prerelease. And they tell me the arcane
spell cards are gone, because they're revamping
them. I went to go get them today, they said they
were revamping them.
MATT: Oh?
BRIAN: But I need them for my home game.
Look at this, Taliesin.
TALIESIN: I didn't tape this. You know
what's happening here?
MATT: What's this, Marisha?
MARISHA: Shut. Up.
MATT: What?
TALIESIN: Thief.
MARISHA: This is from Dana.
"I love watching the show, but I have a lot
"of trouble sitting still, I always need to be
multitasking. So since I was in a sewing rut at
"the time, I made these guys for all of you. It
kept my fingers busy, and it got me through
"Episodes 25 through 58 in the span of two to three
weeks. I know watching through the last few
"Critmases some of you have gotten similar items,
but I figure you can never have too many soft
"things to hug when the road to saving the road
gets scary. Sending these to celebrate finally
"getting caught up to the show and finally being
available to watch the livestreams every Thursday.
"Hope you like them. Dana. Attached is a plaiting
guide because I thought it was cute." Hope you
guys are ready for this.
TALIESIN: We assemble this into a new player.
MARISHA: Matt?
MATT: Yeah? What? I'm holding a bird.
TALIESIN: Woo!
BRIAN: Here, Matt, trade me.
MARISHA: Travis, Ashley--
MATT: You want to take over?
BRIAN: Yeah, trade me. You need to be in there.
MARISHA: Do you want to open Ashley's?
BRIAN: Yeah.
MARISHA: Yeah?
MATT: All right, take this here camera. I'm going
to step in where you were.
BRIAN: I got it.
MARISHA: Liam, Taliesin--
MATT: Why not? I get curious. And sit down, okay.
TALIESIN: This is a box-- I don't even want to say
who it's--
MARISHA: Wait, open it first.
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, okay.
MARISHA: Oh my god!
BRIAN: Oh my god.
TALIESIN: (cackling)
MATT: Holy shit!
TALIESIN: Oh shit. Oh my god!
MARISHA: I want to see yours, let me see yours!
TALIESIN: It gets better. Wait.
MARISHA: Oh my god.
TALIESIN: Oh shit, does it get better.
MARISHA: Yours comes with the little mask? Shut
up.
TALIESIN: Oh wait, does it attach to its--
MARISHA: And yours comes with the little hood!
MATT: Mine has a little hood. It's got lightning
around my head, but it also comes with a Victor
mask that I can put on.
MARISHA: Yours comes with masks?
TALIESIN: The Victor mask is really rocking.
MARISHA and MATT: That's amazing!
BRIAN: Where did the chat go? Did you hide it?
MATT: Gilmore-- I think it's lagging a little bit,
so it might pop up in a bit.
BRIAN: It's lagging a little bit? Okay.
MATT: I think so. A little Gilmore mask, which is
awesome, and a Clarota mask. How cool is that? I
love it!
BRIAN: Those are dope.
MATT: These are amazing.
MARISHA: These are adorable. Those masks are
legit, oh my god.
BRIAN: That is great! Who's that from?
MARISHA: Hand-sewn-- Dana?
MATT: Dana, these are amazing!
BRIAN and MARISHA: Dana!
MARISHA: Wow. These are amazing. Thank you, Dana!
MATT: Thank you for the drawing, Dana! Awesome
dragon picture on the back. Thordak, just Thordak.
That's amazing!
BRIAN: (singing) Thordak, the Cinder King.
TALIESIN: Woo!
MATT: Thank you, Dana.
TALIESIN: Thank you so much! Yes, I love the
mini-Percy, this is amazing. Okay, this box is
from Mavis, Andrew. I don't want to say where he
works yet, because I think it's going to be a nice surprise.
MATT: Oh boy. I like surprises.
MARISHA: Which box? Is that this box?
TALIESIN: This box. I kind of know what's coming.
Be gentle. In fact, let's cut the duct tape.
MATT: All right. I'm curious.
BRIAN: "Denise is really a dragon and she does not
want to be on camera." (chuckling) What class are
you playing, Beeron? That's funny. What's up,
BryGuy? Wow.
MATT: That's actually glued to--
TALIESIN: It's glued to the--? Okay, we're just
going to have to be a little careful then. All
right, here we go.
BRIAN: Think I'm playing a human wizard.
MARISHA: What now?
BRIAN: Oh, look at this. I saw this earlier.
TALIESIN: This is a gift from Red Ship Brewery in
Buffalo, New York.
MATT: What? Oat cocoa stout?
MARISHA: And some Buffalo wing sauce.
MATT: Festhalle Dark.
TALIESIN: From his home brewery in Buffalo.
MATT: That's so awesome!
MARISHA: Holy shit!
MATT: (Scottish accent) Wee little Red Head there
for you.
MARISHA: (British accent) Oh, is that for your
little redhead?
TALIESIN: Sponge candy, we were just having a
conversation about sponge candy, that's hilarious.
BRIAN: High elf barbarian, that's really cool.
MATT: We have Rocket sauce, sponge candy.
MARISHA: (shouting) Sponge candy!
MATT: That is awesome.
TALIESIN: That's totally a thing.
MARISHA: What?
TALIESIN: The sponge candy, we were--
MARISHA: Yeah, we had some in there. It was so
good.
TALIESIN: We did.
MARISHA: I just got some the other day.
BRIAN: Best place?
MATT: Andrew. Thank you so much.
BRIAN: Thank you, Andrew.
TALIESIN: Incredible. Andrew Herman.
BRIAN: Did you guys open a Christmas card already
from TheAnime-- somebody?
MATT: From-- it's probably Meghan.
BRIAN: Oh, Meghan! Yeah!
MARISHA: Yeah, we opened her card.
BRIAN: Yeah, sorry, the chat moved too fast,
Meghan. I couldn't see your name. Yeah, they got it.
MATT: Letters can go over there.
TALIESIN: That's awesome.
BRIAN: Scheduled to ship in March? But I'm
starting my game next week. They just let me know.
MARISHA and MATT: Aw.
MATT: We got more boxes.
TALIESIN: Okay.
MATT: Put the small ones here on the-- we'll do
the big ones last, how about that?
TALIESIN: Yeah. Here's a tube. Oh, it's for me.
MATT: It's for you, open the tube!
TALIESIN: I weirdly get a lot of tubes.
MATT: (Scottish accent) Open your tube! Do it,
sir! Let's see what's inside your tubes. I am
personally quite curious, so open up.
BRIAN: I don't know if I'm going to be a standard
human or variant yet. Someone tell me what I
should do.
TALIESIN: It all depends on what kind of character
you want to play, man. We'll figure it out.
BRIAN: I figured out his name today, I spend three
hours on his name today.
MATT: This is from Lissey Loredio. This is-- oh,
what. This is a canvas print.
BRIAN and TALIESIN: What?!
MARISHA: Oh god!
BRIAN: Careful!
MARISHA: I almost stepped on a box.
MATT: That is so neat.
BRIAN: Wow.
MATT: It's so fricking cool! (cackling)
TALIESIN: That's crazy.
BRIAN: That is awesome.
MATT: Oh my god, I love it.
MARISHA: Going to have to find a frame for that.
MATT: Oh, whoa! It's Shawn's Zahra.
BRIAN: Oh, that's dope.
MARISHA: Are those also on canvases?
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: That's Zahra with an "h."
MATT: There's one for Will and one for Mary.
BRIAN: Oh, that's awesome.
MATT: Make sure that you give one of those when
you go see her.
BRIAN: I will.
MATT: Put that there.
MARISHA: Those are sick.
MATT: These are so amazing!
TALIESIN: Oh my god.
MATT: Holy shit, thank you so much Lacey! Thank
you!
MARISHA: Lacey!
TALIESIN: I'm having trouble opening this.
MATT: That's so badass. I'm going to get the other
one to Will.
MARISHA: Yeah.
BRIAN: Do you guys even have enough walls between
your collective homes?
TALIESIN: Well.
MATT: We're working on it.
TALIESIN: I own a lot of art and so the thing we
do is we shuffle things out so we actually, every
six months, change out the walls a little bit and
move everything around. It's what you do when you
get to a certain point where you have a lot of art
in your life. It's time to shuffle every now and then.
BRIAN: That's what I do. I shuffle.
TALIESIN: I have one right here. Also, if there's
anything to open this with. This is too hard to
open, and I don't quite know what to do.
MATT: Why are you so bad at opening things?
TALIESIN: I don't know!
MATT: Taliesin, the library Internet. Don't
embarrass me!
BRIAN: Is that a new TV?
MATT: What?
MARISHA: Huh?
BRIAN: I love your guys' house so much.
MATT: It's coming together.
BRIAN: It's coming together so beautifully. It's a
perfect mix between both of your personalities and
lifestyles and interests, with a little bit of
weirdness.
MATT: A little?
BRIAN: "Don't trust Matt with the box cutter."
MATT: "I've never mailed my Shrinky Dinks before,
hopefully they made it okay."
TALIESIN: (chuckling) I love Shrinky Dinks.
MATT: "If not, Super Glue fixes them up."
MARISHA: Shwinky Dinks.
MATT: This is from Liz Wooden or sithkitten5 on
Twitter. "Dear everyone, about nine years ago my
"husband asked our group to start playing D&D
together on the weekends. I was reluctant at
"first, but I fell in love with it and everything
about the game. I played a lot of wonderful
"characters over the years and unleashed the
creativity I thought I'd lost. Along the way, I
"started looking at other ways to get my D&D fix,
and when we weren't campaigning, the search
"eventually led me to Critical Role. Can't watch
the show live, but thanks to the Internet, I'm
"able to listen to the Monday upload during my
lunch and planning the sessions at work."
MARISHA: Heck yeah.
MATT: "I'm an occupational therapist that works at
a private school for kids with autism."
BRIAN: That's awesome.
MATT: "The simplest way I explain my job is that I
help these young men and women become as
"independent as possible and give them sensory
strategies to help them cope with day-to-day life.
"My kids run through the entirety of the autism
spectrum. Some of them are working on typing
"paragraphs while some are completely non-verbal
and working on life skills like washing their
"hands. It's a rewarding job, but it's also very
tough. Progress with these kids is often three
"steps forward, two steps back, but it's also not
uncommon when these kids get frustrated or hurt
"themselves or get aggressive towards staff
members. I've gotten my share of bruises, bites,
"and scratches in the name of helping them live as
full a life as possible." That's an incredible pursuit.
MARISHA: Yeah, that is.
MATT: "Again, thank you for letting us watch each
week. Your adventures have been able to cheer me
"up, even the hardest days at work. That means the
world to me. Episodes were also a lifesaver when
"my son was a newborn. 2AM feedings were much
easier to handle when I knew I had you guys to
"keep the two of us company. I look forward to
every episode and even got my husband to watch
it." Aww. "Our gaming group has never had much
money, so we've always had to improvise. We design
"our characters using an online generator and I
take those designs and draw them onto Shrinky Dink
"pages. Then use my Shrinky Dinks as map pieces."
That's awesome!
MARISHA: That is super smart.
MATT: There's a bunch here for everyone. Ashley,
Sam, Liam, Laura, Travis, Taliesin.
TALIESIN: Aw, man I used to love Shrinky Dinks
when I was a kid.
BRIAN: Are you using a safety pin to try and open
that tube?
TALIESIN: Don't judge me.
BRIAN: I'm not judging, I'm just questioning the
efficiency.
TALIESIN: Just making a point here. Making a
point.
BRIAN: They said, "Someone get Taliesin a
blowtorch. Someone get Taliesin a can opener."
TALIESIN: I was actually trying to open it right
from the wrong side and I finally figured that out.
BRIAN: John Dylan's asked if Matt got the kitchen
bench done.
MATT: Not yet. That's the next endeavor.
MARISHA: This looks like it's for you, Matt.
TALIESIN: Ah! That's adorable.
MARISHA: Aw, yeah!
MATT: It's my little Gilmore.
MARISHA: Oh my gosh!
MATT: Little Gilmore.
BRIAN: Yes, that's dope!
TALIESIN: The base is really solid, holy cow. Why
is this reminding me of-- what was that game?
MATT: Thank you so much, Liz, these are amazing!
TALIESIN: This is awesome. It's going to be safe
up here for now.
BRIAN: Oh my gosh!
MARISHA: These are so cute! It's also such a good
idea to use Shrinky Dinks.
MATT: This is from-- oh shit.
BRIAN: Roll dex for package-opening efficiency.
MATT: Yeah, I know.
BRIAN: DanConnolly19 says, "Please tell them I
love them, that is all."
MATT and MARISHA: Aw, love you too, Dan!
BRIAN: Dan meant it for me.
MARISHA: So cute! It's my second season outfit,
too!
BRIAN: Let's see.
TALIESIN: I love the second season outfits.
BRIAN: Yes! That's awesome.
MARISHA: I can't wait for my third season outfit.
TALIESIN: I know. I was imagining when your hair
got burned, I was imagining Kit at home going, "Ah!"
MARISHA: "Oh my god!"
BRIAN: Yeah, right.
TALIESIN: Just screaming.
MARISHA: I'm pretty stoked about my hair change,
not going to lie.
TALIESIN: This is from Faith in Baltimore. Okay,
Faith. Oh dear.
BRIAN: Oh, you got it open!
MARISHA: Oh my gosh! Oh, dude, Tal.
TALIESIN: Oh, and there's the letter. Oh yeah.
BRIAN: Wow.
TALIESIN: Very nice.
BRIAN: That is beautiful.
TALIESIN: And--
MARISHA: (gasp) Is that-- What is it? Is it a
little Clarota?
BRIAN: I don't know how people do this. That seems
so hard. And you have to have patience, which is
dumb. I don't have any of that.
MARISHA: It's the patience thing.
BRIAN: "Will Ashley be here this week?" I don't
think so, no. Unfortunately, she's on ABC's
Blindside, and they film 24/7.
MATT: Syler Scotshear, I got your letter, and a
sincere, "Thank you so much." I'm glad you're
journeying along with us and hold tight out there
in Ohio. I know it can get weird.
TALIESIN: Oh, Faye, thank you so much. Thank you.
Box cutter? Oh. I was like, "Is this a new thing?"
MATT: This is a wonderful Scanlan shirt. "I work
for the customs department. My name is Burt
Reynolds." Which is in reference to a pre-stream
episode that we have in our short pre-stream
trailer that Ashley put together.
TALIESIN: His early Burt Reynolds.
MARISHA: That's right.
MATT: That's awesome. Thank you so much, Syler.
MARISHA: Yeah, Ashley edited together our first
sizzle.
TALIESIN: and BRIAN: That's right.
MATT: Yeah, and O Fortuna.
MARISHA: Yep.
TALIESIN: That thing was so ridiculous.
MARISHA: It was awesome. She whipped it out in a
day, too.
MATT: She's good, man. Someone better lock her
down.
MARISHA: I know, she's our bae.
TALIESIN: Yeah, seriously.
BRIAN: No.
(laughter)
BRIAN: She's holding out for some rich guy.
TALIESIN: It's smart on her part, really.
MATT: Yeah, to be fair.
BRIAN: People are asking if our home DMed game is
going to be streamed. No, outside of Will and
Mary, we're all noobs.
MATT: Not all games should be streamed. That's,
for many of them, their first time playing, let
them enjoy the experience privately and don't push
them too hard, guys. Let them enjoy their game.
BRIAN: We'll definitely post some pictures and
videos, but we're definitely going to get our feet
wet. What does that term mean? Walking out to the
ocean to test the water?
TALIESIN: Getting into the pool first.
BRIAN: Okay.
MATT: But yeah, don't bother them about it, guys.
Let them have their private game.
BRIAN: Oh, it's fine. People just want more of me,
Matt.
MARISHA: That's true.
TALIESIN: That is very fair.
MATT: Oh, this is to Liam O'Brien, courtesy of
CoolStuffTommeggle. I don't know who it's from,
but I'll make sure this gets to Liam.
BRIAN: Can we talk about how great his beard is,
how perfectly shaped and shaded and colored it is?
MATT: I know what he's growing it for.
BRIAN: Can you say?
MATT: No.
BRIAN: I can't either.
MATT: But you guys'll be excited.
TALIESIN: I don't know what for either.
MATT: I do, it's awesome.
BRIAN: He's going to play Abe Lincoln in a video
game where you--
MATT: They had to mocap the beard.
BRIAN: Yeah, they had to mocap the beard.
TALIESIN: It's coming out, it's called Four
Score.
MATT: (announcer voice) Four Score.
TALIESIN: It's kind of like Gods of War vibe,
except with Lincoln.
MATT: (Kratos voice) Emancipator! (speaking) It'd
be great.
BRIAN: (Kratos voice) Let freedom ring! (speaking)
I've been playing Overwatch on PC and it changed
my life.
MATT: Yeah, it does that.
BRIAN: It is so much better! I didn't realize how
much lag was on the console until I started
playing on PC.
TALIESIN: Oh, this is for Mary!
MATT: Another one for Mary.
BRIAN: What's this? What's happening over here?
MARISHA: Okay, this is from Jared Hayes.
BRIAN: Where did Dagon go?
MARISHA: Back to her cage. Right? I took her back,
right?
BRIAN: I was like, "Oh no." Everybody's asking,
I'm like, "Oh no, did I sit on her?"
MARISHA: Yeah, she's in her cage. I questioned it
for a second. "To my favorite group of nerdy-ass
"voice actors: As a token of my appreciation for
the hundreds of hours of entertainment Critical
"Role has given me, I wanted to make something cool
for each of you out chainmail to aid you in your
"quest. Dice bags are usually the go-to, but in my
opinion, mail dice bags look like used metal condoms--"
TALIESIN: If you do them right. Sorry.
MARISHA: "So instead, I decided to skip the bag
part and straight up make you some chainmail dice.
"The colors for each dice were chosen specifically
with your characters in mind. The rings are
"atomized aluminum and the filling is 99.9%
hypoallergenic polyester. These dice were not fair
"and not in a helpful, don't-let-Matt-know kind of
way, either."
MATT: What?
MARISHA: Nothing. "Even if you can't use them in
game, I hope you enjoy these dice as much as I
"have enjoyed Critical Role. All the best, Jared
Hayes @jrphayes. P.S., I'm glad people have
"started putting this in their letters so that we
know when they sent them-- The Thordak fight is
"next week. Try not to die. P.S.S., the butter
cookie Kit Kats can be baked in the toaster oven
"for two to two and a half minutes."
BRIAN: Give me those.
MATT: What? This is-- what?
BRIAN: I'm leaving with those at once.
MATT: What the-- what?
BRIAN: Oh!
MARISHA: Japanese Kit Kat! Can you do it again?
Two for two?
BRIAN: I sure can. Oh!
MARISHA: Look, that was not on me!
MATT: Make a constitution save versus diabetes,
guys.
MARISHA: You guys.
BRIAN: These are Japanese Kit Kats?
TALIESIN: Yeah, that's a whole--
MARISHA: Look at these! This is Pike's die.
BRIAN: Oh my gosh.
MARISHA: This one's Scanlan's. These are so cool!
BRIAN: What the heck? This is so awesome!
MARISHA: These are Percy's!
TALIESIN: Thank you, oh.
MATT: By the way, Tristan, I got your letter and
your awesome dice bag accouterment there, which is
awesome. Thank you so much.
MARISHA: Here's the DM's. Sorry, I did not mean to
do that.
MATT: Oh, did you?
MARISHA: I didn't.
MATT: That's so cool. Thank you, Tristan!
MARISHA: This is Vex.
TALIESIN: This feels weirdly, now that I'm
thinking about that--
BRIAN: These are so cool!
TALIESIN: Yeah, these are.
BRIAN: Squishy squishy.
MARISHA: Here's Travis's. This is mine. Oh, it's
Air Ashari colors!
BRIAN: A green tea Kit Kat?
TALIESIN: Oh, those are great!
MATT: Have you ever had those? Those are
fantastic.
TALIESIN: You're in for a treat.
MATT: Yes, you are, sir.
BRIAN: What? Oh shit, sorry, I got distracted by
cookie and my video failed.
MATT: It does that.
BRIAN: I'm going to send a picture of this to Ash
tonight. She's going to love it. Pike. I love this.
MATT: Congratulations on the engagement, long live
the Marishatt Merceray.
MARISHA: Marishatt for life.
MATT: Marishatt Merceray.
BRIAN: I would love some candy for our game.
That's so sweet of you. You see that one? That's
dope. Oh, that's so cool!
MATT: There are numbers on it too, I love it!
BRIAN: That's so cool!
TALIESIN: It's very soothing.
MATT: Yeah.
BRIAN: Is there any wasabi Kit Kat? What are you
guys talking, wasabi Kit Kat?
MATT: They do have wasabi.
BRIAN: Which ones are these? I can't read Japanese
anymore. There's these ones. And there's these ones.
TALIESIN: This is from Amanda Clark in Caldwell.
MATT: (singing) I'm knocking out a Thermos for
you. An ordinary Thermos, for you.
TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to have to open this up
very carefully because this is nuts.
MATT: Or it'll detonate?
BRIAN: Bye NCTross, her phone's going to die. Bye,
we love you.
ALL: Bye!
BRIAN: Watch this later.
TALIESIN: Queue it up later.
MATT: Critical Scope's on it probably.
TALIESIN: Holy cow. This is a 3D card.
BRIAN: That is dope.
MARISHA: That's a 3D-printed card?
TALIESIN: It's not 3D-printed, it's a 3D card. As
I shake too much because--
MATT: Whoa! Oh, that's amazing! Is that Bad News
in there?
TALIESIN: Yeah!
MARISHA: Oh my god, it's the inside of
Whitestone!
BRIAN: That's cool.
TALIESIN: It's a birthday card! Oh my god, thank
you! It is my birthday in a few days. Aw, you know
me, thank you so much!
MARISHA: Wait, what are these?
TALIESIN: I am very-- this is awesome. Thank you.
MARISHA: Are those stanzas?
MATT: I think it stanzas for them, yeah.
BRIAN: LidaPhoenix says, "Making dinner, watching
you nerds, getting ready for D&D." That sounds
like a good Saturday night!
MARISHA: Hell, yeah!
BRIAN: Is it Saturday? That sounds like a good
Saturday night.
MARISHA: Isn't that crazy?
MATT: This is from WilyTouchstone, Craig Tryhurst
sent in, "Dear Matthew, I wish to express my new
"appreciation and admiration for your skills as a
gamemaster and a storyteller from Critical Role,
"Force Grey and other projects." Thank you. "Many
people who begin as gamemasters underestimate the
"demands of the role and the breadths of skills
required to run an enjoyable game, much less to
"those who try to craft a compelling narrative--"
TALIESIN: Eh, that shit's easy.
MATT: It's time-consuming, but with practice,
anyone can be awesome at this. Find your own style.
TALIESIN: Thank you for this amazing card.
BRIAN: Caffeine, Katie. I saw that.
MARISHA: What is this? Oh, is this from her?
TALIESIN: No, that's from Tristan.
MARISHA: Tristan!
MATT: Yeah, the awesome charm. It can go on your
dice bag.
MARISHA: Yeah! They bought us dice bags?
TALIESIN: Thank you for the cards.
MARISHA: These are sick.
BRIAN: "Brian, can you ask Matt what brand was
that watch he got on Talks Machina Critmas, that
"epic--" what's it called? Oh, crap.
MARISHA: What was the brand of that?
MATT: I'd have to look at it.
BRIAN: It's on the tip of my--
MARISHA: I know, I'm drawing a blank-- Helvetica!
Right?
ALL: No.
MARISHA: That's a font.
MATT: Yeah, it is.
BRIAN: Have you been spending a lot of time in
Microsoft Word lately?
MATT: Yeah. I have it on my phone, which you're
holding, so I'll figure it out later. It says,
"Normally I would not dare--" Oh, okay. "I feel
like-- the one force that I've come across that
"transcends simple chance would be the embodiment
of true elemental chaos. I've used this implement
"in my own past games. My players came to regard it
with reverence and dread. One ill-fated player
"even cursed it as evil incarnate."
BRIAN: Invictus.
MARISHA and TALIESIN: Invictus.
BRIAN: Invictus. Sorry.
MATT: Invictus, which I'm pretty sure was one of
the things you shout in the old Ultima Online when
you use a spell. "For this very reason they've
secured it with this reliquary, bound and warded.
"If you have faith in your players, it may bring
your narrative to new heights or set them adrift
"upon a sea of paranoia. The choice is yours, or at
the very least, Laura has a new swanky dice jail."
BRIAN: "Hey Brian, can you ask Matt and Marisha if
they have opened from last Critmas Thanksgiving?"
I will.
MATT: Oh, I love it! It's chained shut with
sealing papers on it!
TALIESIN: (chuckling) This is the most evil thing
ever! Oh my god, you're a terrible person. This is
amazing. I love it! Oh, this is the worst thing
ever. I'm so excited! (cackling)
BRIAN: Bye ChimeraWhimsy, we love you!
MARISHA: Thank you, Tristan!
MATT: I legitimately have to get a pair of
pliers.
TALIESIN: Okay, this is-- where-- okay. What?
Okay, check out--
BRIAN: Invicta, not Invictus.
MATT: Deutsche Post.
TALIESIN: Oh yes. So this comes from Germany. This
is amazing. This is apparently-- this is for me--
it's from Inja, Inja Morgan on Twitter, who sent
me some chocolates that they made. 19 of them are
nice and normal, and there's one that represents
the psychic damage I take when Animus misfires,
and it's spicy hot. And will apparently hurt.
BRIAN: Whoa.
TALIESIN: Challenge accepted. Challenge totally
accepted.
MARISHA: Wait, doesn't that happen on a two or a
one though for Animus?
TALIESIN: Technically, this is much kinder than
Animus. Oh shit, okay, yeah, that stuff--
MARISHA: That's amazing.
MATT: Craig also has a bunch of additional things.
This would be the O'Brien family, the Riegel
family, the Foster-Johnson family.
BRIAN: Oh, that's me!
MATT: That's you.
BRIAN: I'm of those people. The Foster-Johnson
family.
MATT: This is the Jaffe family, the Mercer-Ray
MARISHA: Merceray!
BRIAN: Ryan Green asks if this was the bunch of
stuff he was guarding behind the set or if this is new.
TALIESIN: There's still some left from that.
BRIAN: There's still some left, Ryan Green. You
are a handsome son of a bitch.
MARISHA: Is Ryan Green in chat? Ryan Green.
BRIAN: Meghan, post your comment again, the chat's
going too fast for me to understand what you're
asking for. Sorry guys, I'm trying to get to some
of these questions, but the chat moves very quickly.
MARISHA: It does go fast.
BRIAN: One of the Critters was asking if you guys
need any furniture for your house. I think they
make furniture.
TALIESIN: Where are you at?
BRIAN: Yeah, are you still-- the setup is very
early on right now.
MATT: Guys, I mean, I don't know.
TALIESIN: Even I can't ask, I don't know how
they'd answer.
MATT: It's a strange position because on one hand,
we're doing okay and we're busy people, things are
going okay for the time being career-wise, so we
have a hard time accepting gifts, per se, but we
appreciate all that you guys do for us. There's so
much heart put into each of these things and we've
incorporated them all into our living space, so
it's this tradeoff. You don't have to do anything
by any means! If you feel inspired and you want
to, then go for it, and we'll find a place for it.
I don't know.
BRIAN: Yeah. That's a great answer.
MATT: Having to learn through the years how to
accept gifts, it's a weird process. I'm
appreciative of all the wonderful people, that for
some reason, follow along with our chaos.
TALIESIN: Oh, that's just wonderfully cruel.
MARISHA: It's an audio version of the Christmas
Carol.
MATT: What? Performed by Craig?
MARISHA: By Craig Tyhurst.
MATT: Yeah, adapted and performed by Craig
himself. That's awesome!
MARISHA: That is so awesome! That's such a good
idea!
TALIESIN: I am down for that.
BRIAN: "Did Matt and Marisha open from last
Critmas after Thanksgiving?"
MATT: What's what?
BRIAN: Meghan was asking if Matt and Marisha
opened from the Critmas from last Thanksgiving.
MATT: We had a Critmas last time.
MARISHA: Yeah, we opened those. We got you, girl.
BRIAN: Yeah, they opened those. Don't apologize to
me!
TALIESIN: Every now and then, things get a little
crazy, and not everything ends up on stream. Not
everything is up on stream. But we pretend.
MARISHA: But we try.
TALIESIN: Because this is crazy.
BRIAN: Question. "How many times does everyone
watch the 'What Does Critical Role Mean to You?' video?"
MARISHA: We've watched it a few times.
BRIAN: I've watched every video that every person
sent in multiple times.
TALIESIN: Plus some ones that people didn't add.
MATT: You didn't open this big box.
TALIESIN: I know, I'm getting to it after all
that.
BRIAN: Tovath, send me a link to that on Twitter
if you don't mind, @brianwfoster. Are you guys
heading to Australia this year, anyone?
MATT: I don't know.
MARISHA: Maybe.
TALIESIN: We just started looking at that.
MATT: We're getting to the bigger boxes here. We
have a couple--
TALIESIN: There's still some stuff in the tub that
we should look at.
MATT: Oh yes, bring that over. Marisha and I will
pull some stuff.
BRIAN: Marisha, have you ever had short hair in
real life?
MARISHA: It's been shoulder-length a long time
ago, and that was the shortest it's ever been.
I've never done a bob, I've never been Keyleth
short, like chin-length. I've never gone
chin-length before.
BRIAN: We are going to release the full-length
form of that video. It's taking a while because a
lot of them were in really different formats. We
have some editors that are working on it, but I
promise you guys I'll let you know as soon as we
get that done. There's so much going on right now,
but everybody's working on it as much as they can.
Thank you guys for being patient.
MARISHA: (in a British accent) There's been a lot
going on over there at good old Geek & Sundry.
MATT: I got your specific letter, Amanda, by the
way, to go along with the brass dragon. Thank you
so much. I'm going to read the full thing later
on.
BRIAN: "Please come to Canada, we love you up
here." I love Canada. Canada's freaking beautiful.
MATT: Canada's great! We haven't been to any of
the major cities yet. We went to Nova Scotia for a
store opening up there. It was really fun, really
pretty up there.
MARISHA: In Halifax.
BRIAN: "Please come back to New York City." Oh,
I'm going to be in New York City soon.
TALIESIN: We love New York.
MATT: We're trying to find a way to get back to
New York soon.
TALIESIN: We have a lot of friends-- actually, the
real Cassandra de Rolo lives in New York.
MATT: Oh, what?
TALIESIN: She just found out that I wrote her into
a game. She laughed pretty hard.
MATT: Chris Moss said, "Critical Role, I've
watched you guys since November. It was nice to
"binge watch all the back episodes every night and
then get caught up. Sadness. But I have a new
"goal. While I've been waiting for 'How do you want
to do this?,' I wish I had thought of that one,
"it's so good. I used to play D&D back in high
school. TSR-80 and Atari were a good time and a
"brief time while in the First Gulf War, Desert
Shield and Desert Storm." Thank you very much for
your service, by the way, Chris.
BRIAN: Awesome.
MATT: "I was a sergeant in the United States
Marine Corps. Then after that, I got married and
"had two boys and never got the chance to play
again until you guys came along. I did get into
"some PC gaming when I had two boys. Now they're
both grown up and on their way to college and I've
"no time to play, but there was something missing.
After I found you guys at Geek & Sundry, I was
"going through my D&D suitcase, came across these
books that needed a new home, and I thought of you
"guys. You guys are bringing a lot of laughs into
my long weeks, and hope to see more. Scoot with
"the good times. P.S. Sam, you're awesome with
limericks." He is. "And P.S.S., my handwriting is
"so atrocious, so I typed it." Don't worry about
it, buddy, it's all good. He sent these original
Dungeons & Dragons books.
MARISHA: Oh shit, like TSR books?
MATT: Like the original Greyhawk supplement, which
is legit. There's the rules from the Men and Magic
book. Women weren't allowed apparently in that
one. And the Underworld and Wilderness Adventures.
Okay guys, those who haven't seen what D&D looked
like in the beginning. Yeah, right there. This is
what it looked like way back in the day.
BRIAN: It's about time someone gave men a leg up.
TALIESIN: A third leg up, even.
MATT: Heyo. I always loved the older design of the
Beholder. What was the old, sad movie, old
black-and-white silent films?
TALIESIN: Or like the weird animated Ms. Pac-Man
with one eye.
MATT: Yeah. It's beautiful. This is a kingly gift.
Thank you so much. It's from history, yo.
MARISHA: This is from Lindsey M. from Polk City,
Florida. (in a Southern accent) Polk City, Florida.
TALIESIN: I don't think I've ever been to Polk
City before.
MARISHA: To Vox Machina, it says, "Congrats to
Matt and Marisha," on the back.
MATT: Yay.
MARISHA: This looks pretty amazing.
MATT: Sorry, buddy.
TALIESIN: Ah!
MARISHA: "Dear Vox Machina, enclosed is a token of
my eternal appreciation and the shenanigans that
"you bring to the Critters each Thursday. Knitting
is a hobby of mine, and I teach my English
"students how to make hats and scarves for the
homeless during an after school community program
"called 'The Neckwits.'" That's awesome! "A few of
my students watch the show and one, at 16, is a DM
"herself. They were stoked when I told them that I
was crafting gifts for all of you wonderful
"people. I hope you like them, I've already given
Will Friedle his at a local con. Thank you again
"to your talent, your humor, and your inspiration.
Merry Critmas! #performancematters, #percahlia,
#iwouldliketoknit, #ravenclawforlife."
MATT: (chuckling) That's awesome!
MARISHA: Lindsey from Winter Haven, Florida, and
she knit us Dungeon Master Mercer.
MATT: Oh, what?
TALIESIN: Oh, I want to go to a soccer game!
MARISHA: Scanlan, which has musical notes on it.
Holy shit.
MATT: That's happening.
MARISHA: Vex'ahlia, which has the bear paw
prints.
BRIAN: Oh, that's so dope.
MARISHA: These are crazy, you guys. Vax'ildan,
which's got "Dagger, dagger, dagger." Keyleth of
the Air Ashari, that's so funny. She put my whole
title on there.
MATT: That's fantastic.
MARISHA: I'm putting this on right now.
MATT: Percy, take it.
TALIESIN: Oh, I'm in.
MARISHA: There's Travis's Grog.
MATT: This is for Pike, you can bring it to her
while you're over there.
BRIAN: Oh, that's dope.
MATT: Aw, damn it.
BRIAN: Nothing but net.
MATT: Here is a new Vaxleth fic from Adam
Schwartze.
MARISHA: Oh, Adam!
MATT: Tiamat, as you know him.
MARISHA: Thank you, Tiamat.
MATT: That's there for you and Liam, which is
awesome.
MATT and MARISHA: Thank you.
BRIAN: Quick lightning round question. Favorite
cartoon as a child? Go. Someone asked. Mine was
Darkwing Duck.
MATT: Dude, you beat me to it. It depends on the
era. Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles had such a big
impact on my life as a kid.
TALIESIN: I was a really early anime kid, and I
was watching Saint Seiya. Saint Seiya was a really
heavy anime, and I got pulled in super early,
though.
MATT: For me it would be the old Ghostbusters to
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles to Darkwing Duck, and
those are the three that really hit me.
TALIESIN: Galaxy High, motherfucker.
MARISHA: I watched the Batman animated series
quite a lot.
BRIAN: Oh, I love the Batman series.
MARISHA: I also watched some X-Men back in the
day, the original X-Men cartoon.
MATT: I can't pick a favorite, there's too many
good ones!
BRIAN: Was that the one Steve Blum was in?
MATT: No.
TALIESIN: He was in-- I'm trying to remember the
name.
MATT: Yeah, you see him a little bit in Wolverine
and the X-Men.
TALIESIN: --make sure that our fan whose name I
cannot use from the Royal Australian Mint, who
requested to remain anonymous for security
reasons.
MATT: That's amazing!
BRIAN: Oh, that's hilarious.
TALIESIN: --a thank you, and this is just-- yeah.
MATT: Oh, wow.
TALIESIN: Yeah, fucking spectacular.
MARISHA: Is it a coin?
TALIESIN: It's one of the Navy coins.
BRIAN: Oh, that's dope.
TALIESIN: Thank you. This means more than you
can--
MATT: That's so great!
TALIESIN: Thank you for your letter, this is
great. And, yeah, for the-- we're--
MATT: Oh, we each got one?!
TALIESIN: Yeah, we each got one. I know Travis
really will want these.
BRIAN: "Brian, that is Ashley's hat. Put it back
and see me after class." Gummi Bears!
ALL: (singing) Gummi Bears, bouncing here and
there and everywhere. High adventures that's
beyond compare, they are the Gummi Bears. We are
the Gummi Bears!
BRIAN: Yeah, dude.
MATT: We've lost the Internet.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
BRIAN: That show introduced us all to drugs. What?
You guys didn't take it that way?
TALIESIN: I don't want to say introduced.
MATT: That was one of the many greats in the
Lorenzo Music series. Incredible.
TALIESIN: Really early work of-- oh god, I'm
blanking. We know a bunch of people who worked on that.
MATT: Marsden, wasn't it?
TALIESIN: Marsden, and I want to say it was Tom
Hancock? It was some of his early work, maybe?
MATT: Really? I know it was one of Jason Marsden's
early works.
BRIAN: "Facepalm," Ryan Green says after we sang.
MATT: (chuckling) Good.
BRIAN: (singing) Don't be jealous that we sing so
good.
MATT: We have a few big ones left, right? Oh
Marisha, hand me that one on the ground.
MARISHA: This one here?
MATT: That one right there, yeah.
MARISHA: It's heavy.
MATT and TALIESIN: Is it heavy?
MARISHA: It's--
MATT: Oh, what is that?
MARISHA: It's glass-- ooh, they look like mugs!
MATT: What?
BRIAN: I have not seen the Gummi song on YouTube,
send it to me, please. Send it to me on Twitter.
MATT: That is heavy, Jesus. It's from Julian
Hupp.
MARISHA: Here.
MATT: Thank you. This is a heavy-ass box. How big
is this son of a bitch?
BRIAN: Chip 'n Dale: Rescue Rangers! Fuck, I
forgot about that show!
MATT: (singing) Sometimes, some crimes--
BRIAN: Gargoyles! I loved Gargoyles.
MATT: (singing) -- go slipping through the
cracks.
MARISHA: It's not a cartoon, but I was pretty
obsessed with Wishbone. Does anyone remember Wishbone?
BRIAN: That sounds really familiar, tell me a
little bit more.
MATT: (singing) Ch-Ch-Ch-Chip n' Dale.
MARISHA: You weren't paying attention to my
Wishbone story.
MATT: I'm not, no, I was singing before you--
(chuckling)
BRIAN: (singing) Ch-Ch-Ch-Chip n' Dale!
MATT: (singing) When there's danger, you know I
never fail--
TALIESIN: I was always sad that my parents
wouldn't take me to Chippendales. Because I felt
that that would be how I'd want to spend my
birthday.
BRIAN: Yeah, those were different.
MARISHA: You know, that was very convoluted as a
kid.
TALIESIN: Was it convoluted? Yeah, that's true. I
wondered why it was a theme restaurant.
MARISHA: No, you don't understand, Mom, why can't
I go hang out with Chip and Dale?
TALIESIN: It seems like the restaurant I'd want to
go to.
MATT: To be fair, yeah. The day you realize. I
remember there's a time where my parents--
BRIAN: @brianwfoster. Sorry, I was talking to
them.
MATT: There was a party they were going to for a
friend's bachelorette party and it was at
Chippendales, and I heard them say it. I was like,
"What? That's not fair!" And that's when I found out.
TALIESIN: I was about to say, that sounds like
your mom right there.
MATT: "Dear cast of Critical Role, I'm not sure I
have as much to say as my wife, but I wanted to
"explain the gifts. For almost two years now, my
wife's been watching your show and has fallen in
"love. She has watched through the ups and downs,
not just in our life and campaign. During that
"time we've helped her through so much, Matt has
pissed her off and brought her back along, which
"I'm sure a lot of us Critters out there. While I
don't watch as much anymore with her, I do catch
"the occasional episode and laugh my ass off." Aw,
that's really sweet. It says, "Pass on the
"family," and it's been a couple of hard years for
both him and his wife, and they've both lost two
members of their respective families. Before that
one, "To explain the gifts, I wanted to thank you
"for all you do and wish you all the best of luck
in the future. The gifts you will find 12 mugs
"enclosed in the box. Eight are special for the
main cast. The remaining four are etched with my
"version of the Vox Machina logo on one side and
Critical Role logo on the other."
MARISHA: Oh, shit.
MATT: "These four you're free to give away either
to the crew or as gifts. If you feel they're good
"enough to auction out for charity, I'd be honored.
Eight of the cast are etched with the Vox Machina
"logo." Wow. Okay.
TALIESIN: Wow.
BRIAN: Who is this from again?
MATT: This is from Julian Hupp and Crystal Hupp.
BRIAN: Oh, great.
MATT: Oh, there's a letter here from Crystal as
well! Oh my god, you guys! Okay, we'll read these
in a moment. I don't want to run out of time. So
these are-- what?
TALIESIN: Whoa.
BRIAN: Holy crap.
MARISHA: Oh my god!
TALIESIN: Ah! Inevitable pain!
MARISHA: Oh shit!
MATT: Pike Trickfoot! What could possibly go wrong
in hitting--
TALIESIN: This is a perfect--
MARISHA: It's got a Minxie paw!
BRIAN: This is dope.
MATT: Your entire name is on there.
TALIESIN: Oh, very nice. Oh, yeah.
MATT: These are so cool! Holy shit!
BRIAN: Wow. Pike Trickfoot. These are so dope.
TALIESIN: (singing) Who controls the British
crown? Who keeps the metric system down? We do.
(speaking) Okay, that's enough.
MATT: Yeah, we're going to have to celebrate with
those in the future.
MARISHA: Hell yeah.
MATT: That's magnificent. Thank you so much.
TALIESIN: This will be for my favorite cocktail,
the pint of whiskey. Someone asked us what
cocktail should I drink while watching Critical
Role and I sent them the recipe for pint of whiskey.
MATT: We now lead to the bigger boxes.
MARISHA: Do they just get a pint?
TALIESIN: You take a pint glass, you fill it with
whiskey, and then you tell anyone who tells you
that's not a cocktail to shut the fuck up. It's
the recipe for pint of whiskey.
MATT: (Russian accent) All right Taliesin, deliver
the big box.
TALIESIN: (Russian accent) The big box.
MATT: (Russian accent) Bring it to this place.
BRIAN: We're not sure yet about PAX East.
TALIESIN: We are not sure about-- we just got our
first series of "What cons do you want to do this
"year?" letters and we're all staring at them like
deer in the headlights.
MATT: We've got a lot of work at home to do and
we're trying to decide what we can go to and not
go insane.
TALIESIN: Yeah, without losing our minds and
letting everything suffer, letting our health suffer.
MARISHA: That's the problem, we all work at least
two or three full-time jobs.
TALIESIN: (high stressed-out voice) At this point? Yeah.
BRIAN: We'll definitely let you guys know as soon
as we figure out any cons or Critical Role Lives
or appearances for this year. We'll let you guys
know right away. We're still trying to figure it
out, guys.
MATT: This is from Emily Duette, I think it says.
Emily Duette.
BRIAN: Emily, do it!
MARISHA: Do it, do it!
MATT: Oh, we all got specific boxes!
MARISHA: Oh, boxes!
BRIAN: You're welcome, ComedianNaroo.
TALIESIN: I think mine's the one with the S on
it.
MATT: I think it's probably Scanlan's. I think
yours is the one with the actual De Rolo crest on it.
TALIESIN: I don't think that's right. That's
probably not mine.
MATT: What is in there? Oh, we got this for a lot
of people. Oh, these are awesome! Oh, what?
MARISHA: Oh, that's awesome! She made this
necklace that--
TALIESIN: What is up with everyone's handwriting
being so nice? I feel like such a slacker. This is
some intense hand-- I can't even get over the
handwriting, I'm sorry. I'm having a moment with this.
MATT: No, handwriting is amazing.
TALIESIN: Oh my god.
MATT: Emily, your handwriting looks like Elvish.
TALIESIN: It looks like a font!
MATT: It looks like straight-up Tolkien.
MARISHA: Yeah, it really does.
MATT: Like Quenya. It's awesome.
MARISHA: She made this necklace inspired by "Make
Them Gold" from my playlist.
MATT: Oh, no way. That's awesome!
MARISHA: Yeah! That is so rad.
MATT: This inner-workings journal, by the way,
this leather binding on this is awesome. This is
fantastic, thank you so much.
MARISHA: This is so pretty! Aw, thank you.
BRIAN: So much love. I love you guys. You guys are
so nice.
TALIESIN: Aw, now that's classy. Yes, I know what
to do with this.
BRIAN: "I know what to do with this, yes."
TALIESIN: It is a monogrammed handkerchief.
BRIAN: It's monogrammed?
TALIESIN: It's got a little stitched de Rolo
skull.
BRIAN: Oh! That's dope.
MATT: (chuckling) Thank you, Emily, and I'm
excited to be in Final Fantasy.
BRIAN: What the heck? It's frozen.
MATT: Her box is Cor Leonis-themed from Final
Fantasy XV, which makes me happy. Thank you so
much, Emily.
BRIAN: Thank you, Emily.
TALIESIN: This is such a pretty box.
MARISHA: Thank you for your letter, Emily.
MATT: Better get this to the rest of the cast.
MARISHA: This box is so pretty.
TALIESIN: Be right back.
MATT: Taliesin, don't leave us.
TALIESIN: I'm leaving you!
MATT: (Sean Connery voice) Don't leave us, Taliesin!
We require your presence.
I'm sorry, Taliesin has left us. There's no hope. No.
TALIESIN: Yes! All right, I'm going to take that
box away.
MATT: Stop it with the dice ball!
TALIESIN: I'm going to take that box away. That
box is going to go away over here.
MATT: We've gotten a little loopy at this point, I
apologize.
BRIAN: Yeah, we're all white girl wasted.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: We will be now that we have the proper shot
glasses.
TALIESIN: We know what happened in Vegas. You got
drunk. Everybody knows.
MATT: You got drunk and danced with your friends.
You basic. Basic as fuck.-- It's one of the
best, and the follow up--
TALIESIN: Made you grow up.
MATT: The best things they've done outside of that
ruins everything.
TALIESIN: This is from Chris--
BRIAN: I can't get the camera to turn back around
towards you guys. Hold on a second.
TALIESIN: What was that, dude?
BRIAN: I'm trying, but it's-- I got it.
TALIESIN: Okay everyone, yeah, we all know--
BRIAN: Oh, damn it. Hold on, wait.
MATT: Do you need help with this?
BRIAN: It's lagging because it's--
MATT: Cancel that, Brian.
BRIAN: Good lord.
MATT: Brian? Yeah, ready?
BRIAN: Okay.
MATT: There you go, Brian.
BRIAN: Wow.
MARISHA: Did you get it?
BRIAN: I don't know technology very well, you
guys.
TALIESIN: All right.
MATT: Trying to clear off the packing peanuts.
TALIESIN: There's a couple more over there.
MARISHA: It's like an archaeologist's dig.
MATT: So guys.
TALIESIN: There's the thing that happened.
MATT: There's a fantastic group of very talented
artist Critters who have been slowly categorizing
the death of each member of the Chroma Conclave
with a bust. This is their recent gift.
TALIESIN: We want to unwrap and not pull up.
BRIAN: I'll have them find the mug in just a sec,
PinkyPal.
TALIESIN: Hmm?
BRIAN: I'm talking to PinkyPal!
TALIESIN: Well, fine. I don't really want to talk
to you anyway.
MARISHA: Talking to your make-believe friends?
BRIAN: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Your make-believe Internet friends?
BRIAN: All my make-believe friends.
MATT: Getting close, you guys.
TALIESIN: That would be a good burn. You're so
awful that imaginary people on the internet make
fun of you.
BRIAN: Is this what I think it is?
TALIESIN and MATT: Yeah!
TALIESIN: This is going to happen. Oh wait, do you
see what's in its mouth?
BRIAN: Oh my god.
TALIESIN: Do you see what's in its mouth? That's
not a packing peanut.
MATT: No, this is for the LEDs that are inside
Thordak.
BRIAN: Get the fuck out of here.
TALIESIN: Wow! Wait, let's try it. Here we go.
MARISHA: Holy shit. Wow. This might be the best--
TALIESIN: What kind of batteries? Is there a
thing, maybe?
MATT: There are six batteries. You can change
batteries in the back.
TALIESIN: It might need to be flipped. Does the
thing need to be pulled or anything?
MARISHA: What are we going to do with these
things? You want to put them on the Talks
Machina-- oh, but-- I don't know, the new staff,
maybe?
BRIAN: Oh, yeah. Mm-hmm.
TALIESIN: Yeah, it should be-- we'll figure out
how to light it up, but boy, does it light up.
MATT: Oh, look at the gem there exposed too!
BRIAN: Everyone says put them in the set.
MATT: Look at that shit.
MARISHA: Look at the gems, the crystals coming out
of his horns.
MATT: That's so fricking cool, you guys!
MARISHA: Wow, that's stupid.
MATT: Consistently outdoing yourself with each
gift.
TALIESIN: We are going to need to get some
batteries going on over here.
MARISHA: What kind of batteries?
MATT and TALIESIN: Double A.
BRIAN: I can't believe the detail on this thing.
MATT: They do incredible work. Holy shit.
BRIAN: That's my finger.
MATT: Holy shit!
TALIESIN: Yeah, we're going to need to get some
batteries in this motherfucker. They might be in
backwards, sometimes people flip the battery.
MATT: That's true. I'm going to hold it by the
throat.
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, I know.
MATT: Jesus Christ!
BRIAN: How many is that now?
MATT: That's four. They only have one member of
the Conclave left.
MARISHA: Yeah. Where are the other ones? Oh, we
put them in your office, that's right.
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: What happens if we don't kill Raishan?
BRIAN: Switch under the plaque on the base? Is
there a switch under the plaque on the base of it?
That's what they were saying on the Internet.
MATT: Oh, maybe.
BRIAN: I'm filming nothing, sorry. What's the
longest Matt's hair's ever been?
MATT: Oh man, in high school, it was down to
almost my waist in the back.
BRIAN: Almost to your waist in the back?
MATT: Yeah, it was about-- there's the letter I
was looking for. Oh, and new batteries.
BRIAN: Oh, batteries.
TALIESIN: Oh, well there we go.
BRIAN: They said a switch under the-- I don't know
if it's someone who knows or not or if they're
just guessing to try and help us out.
TALIESIN: They're just guessing, there's not a
switch under the back.
BRIAN: Saturnus, just tweet me @brianwfoster.
TALIESIN: Yeah, I think we just change out the
battery. We'll see if that does it.
MATT: Yeah, my hair was about that long in high
school.
BRIAN: Wow. And then, Taliesin, some people are
asking the length of your hair right now because
it's hard to tell with the sexy cut.
TALIESIN: Oh, well, here, I'll pull my lovely hat
off. And it kind of fades in the back, so it's
longer on the front then it is in the back.
BRIAN: Mine does the same thing, except it's not
as beautiful.
TALIESIN: We could beaut you up.
BRIAN: We could do me up.
TALIESIN: We could see with a blacklight, we could
give you blacklight tips when you go out.
BRIAN: Hell yeah.
TALIESIN: You'll look like there was a crime
scene.
BRIAN: Yeah, that's-- yeah, something.
MARISHA: Let's put on more music. Man, this looks
like a Critmas hurricane went off in my front
living room.
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, we're not done, there's still
more, I think. No.
MATT: Yeah, there's a little bit more. There's
three more boxes to do.
TALIESIN: Okay. Woo! Thank you guys for sticking
around for a long--
BRIAN: This is crazy amount of stuff!
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MATT: When you have a community as amazing as
this--
BRIAN: What's this doing over there?
TALIESIN: What's what?
BRIAN: What's this map doing over here?
TALIESIN: Oh, that's remnants of bad decisions.
MATT: That is half of the Thordak battle map. For
those who don't know how I do these usually, these
are big baking tins that I sprayed with Plasti
Dip, so they have a sticky, or at least, resistant
surface. That way, I can build the map at home and
then take it in pieces to the set and in the back of
my car.
BRIAN: That's what these are?
MATT: Yeah. These are actual two halves of the
same set and I put them side-by-side.
BRIAN: Wow.
MATT: And I have a bridge piece between the two of
them. That way I can build them at home and
transport them to the studio than having to build
them on the actual set.
MARISHA: You've got to transport them like it's a
wedding cake.
BRIAN: This is Defcon Zero DMing right now.
MARISHA: Oh, fuck yeah! Give it.
BRIAN: Oh my god. That is so crazy.
MARISHA: Are you going through the settings?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MARISHA: There we go.
MATT: Look at the patterns.
MARISHA: Uh, that's sick.
BRIAN: Hang it on the door and when someone rings
the doorbell, make the light turn on and just
scare the shit out of them.
MATT: That would be magnificent. Shit, guys.
MARISHA: That's banging.
BRIAN: Someone said, "Oh my god, it's
terrifying."
MARISHA: Yeah, it kind of is.
BRIAN: That's insane.
TALIESIN: Oh my god.
MATT: Can I see the remote?
TALIESIN: Yeah, there's the remote to you. Well,
that's a thing that happened.
MATT: That's a thing that exists. All right, we
got three more, one of which is a package that
also got lost at the studio. Let's do that.
TALIESIN: That one's already opened.
BRIAN: Ryan Green lost this package, guys, but we
were able to find it using help from other friends
that are more responsible.
TALIESIN: As in, all of our friends.
BRIAN: As in, literally our worst friends are more
responsible. I hope he's still on here.
MARISHA: Oh yeah! What is it? Oh shit! Oh my god!
MATT: And Vex.
MARISHA: You guys.
BRIAN: (singing) I've got a golden ticket!
MARISHA: Oh my god!
TALIESIN: That is a really big wallet for Matt.
MARISHA: It's Kit and Wendy-- it's a few different
people's arts. It's leather that they've etched.
BRIAN: Oh my gosh! What? (gasps)
MARISHA: Right? This is from our Winter's Crest
festival comic that Taliesin and I wrote when we
did our little comic. Look at that.
BRIAN: Holy cow.
MATT: I don't quite know what this is yet--
TALIESIN: I have a funny feeling.
BRIAN: Oh my gosh, that's wood!
TALIESIN: That's fucking gorgeous.
MATT: That's amazing, holy shit!
BRIAN: That is dope!
MARISHA: Wow. That's even more-- and it was the
art contest winner, that's even more amazing. We
might have to do some set redecorating.
BRIAN: Heck yes we do.
MATT: Is that from-- is it Robbie?
MARISHA: I forgot, he sent wallets for the guys.
MATT: RecklessRobbie.
TALIESIN: From Colorado Springs, I love Colorado
Springs!
MARISHA: RecklessRobbie. Wow.
MARISHA: "You better hope by the you read this
that the Chroma Conclave has finally met a fitting
"end and your band of adventurers is on to fighting
the next evil that has reared its head." Almost.
MATT: Maybe. Pending.
TALIESIN: Could be.
MARISHA: We got really close.
MATT: "I go by RecklessRobbie on most things
Internet and ArtThroughFlame on Etsy. Travis
"seemed to enjoy the last one of these I made."
This is the guy that made the last one with him
screaming, "Vax!" "So I figured I'd make another
one that's continuing. Thank you for this
"amazing-ness that is Critical Role. I didn't make
one for any particular member of the group, so if
"there isn't a spot for it in the studio, then the
cast will simply have to fight over it." Oh no,
we'll find a place for it.
TALIESIN: That will hit Talks.
MATT: That is so cool.
TALIESIN: This is why I love the Talks set,
because we can--
MATT: "Quite literally, if you have another battle
royale in the horizon, have the winner choose who
"gets it." I do kind of like that.
BRIAN: That's a good idea.
MATT: We'll see if there's a place on the set and
if not, we'll do just that.
MARISHA: I think we're going to be getting an
upgrade soon.
TALIESIN: Yeah, the set will be upgraded
hopefully.
BRIAN: Matt, before I forget, the person who sent
the mugs over said to find the big ones, so to
find yours because it's different. It's special,
it's different. Don't let me forget that.
MARISHA: It's like a shield.
TALIESIN: You got it, or should I get it?
MATT: Yeah, it is straight-up a shield!
BRIAN: Oh god. Everything's fine. It is a shield,
Thorin Oakenshield.
MARISHA: (shouting) This is Vox Machina!
TALIESIN: That's such an Adventure Show flashback.
I don't know if that made me happy or sad. Matt,
Marisha, and I used to do improv together.
MARISHA: That's true.
MATT: I wasn't sure if I was going to get a box.
That's awesome, it says, "Vox Machina," it has the
symbol on the other side. It says, "Dungeon Master
of a thousand voices," and it has a skull and crossbones.
MARISHA: Motherfuck, that's awesome.
TALIESIN: Holy cow.
MARISHA: Wow.
MATT: Man! This is going to come out so it can
stay in the kitchen.
MARISHA: All right, so--
TALIESIN: Two more to go. This insane-- saving
that for last? Okay.
MATT: Wait, you know what, let's do that one now.
To preface this--
TALIESIN: Is this the one that got left forever?
MATT: No, this is the one that was at the post
box.
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, no one had a car big enough to
pick up.
MATT: Yeah, and we had to particularly get it in
our vehicle.
BRIAN: Oh my gosh.
MATT: It is labeled with many "Fragile" stickers.
TALIESIN: We'll see if that actually--
MATT: As soon as you picked it up today, it was
like-- (parts moving)-- it has many small pieces
moving inside, so there's a little part of me
that's feeling really anxious about this.
BRIAN: Hopefully we're good.
MATT: Hopefully we're good.
MARISHA: Maybe it's--
MATT: Whatever it is, I'll fix it if it's not
there, but hold that for a second.
TALIESIN: I got it.
MATT: I literally went to pick up today and I was
like, "Oh no, please no."
BRIAN: I hope it's a painting of Sam laying down
in the naked Burt Reynolds pose.
MARISHA: That would be amazing.
BRIAN: Marisha Oakenshield, they say.
TALIESIN: I think it may be fine, it may have just
been glass.
BRIAN: Matt's mug comes with the players' tears.
MATT: I get the sense based on the audio that
perhaps FedEx did not treat the box as kindly as you
would have hoped.
MARISHA: Wow, that's really big.
MATT: It's huge.
TALIESIN: I would say be careful because there's
probably going to be a bag of glass. I get that feeling.
MATT: There's a letter in here that says--
TALIESIN: That might be the thing. It might have
just been a big sound bag going crinkle crinkle.
MATT: "To Matt and Marisha."
BRIAN: Oh!
MARISHA: This is to us? Oh. Jesus.
TALIESIN: It's a painting of a horse head because
they figured you didn't have room.
MATT: "Hey Sun Tree, hey Kiki. Dear Matt and
Marisha, I'd like to donate a framed poster of Vox
"Machina to you. I ordered it and it was a bit
damaged on the edges, so Geek and Sundry sent me a
"replacement. I had them both framed, hung one on
my wall and decided to send the other back to you
"and perhaps auction it for charity, whatever you
like. Especially yours, Jason Morrison. Is it
"Thursday yet? @JasonofArabia."
MARISHA: Oh, Jason!
BRIAN: Thank you Jason. JasonofArabia.
TALIESIN: All right, let's-- we can definitely
leave this.
MATT: Yeah, we can leave it out.
TALIESIN: Yeah, we'll keep cutting.
MATT: It's thick plastic.
MARISHA: Whoa. That scared the shit out of me.
BRIAN: TukRoll in the house.
TALIESIN: I should probably get out of the way
here. There are layers.
MARISHA: There're several layers.
TALIESIN: (surprised laughter) Oh yeah. The glass
did not do well.
MATT: But that's okay.
ALL: The poster survived!
MATT: I feel like we shouldn't open it entirely,
because the more we don't open, the higher the
chance we can-- we will get this reframed.
TALIESIN: We're going to have to very gently get
this out of here.
MARISHA: This is amazing. Aw, thank you! Thanks
for sending it for our wedding, especially since
we didn't get one of those. We didn't get one. So
that's awesome.
MATT: We didn't get one-- the framed one.
BRIAN: What's the poster of?
MATT: It's our actual poster.
BRIAN: Oh, it's the big one?
MARISHA: The big Joe Mad one.
TALIESIN: The signed edition, we didn't think
through enough to get one for ourselves.
MATT: I actually want to make a really good
charity gift or something.
MARISHA: That might also be a great Talks
Machina-- or, yeah.
MATT: Yeah, we'll get that fixed.
BRIAN: Obviously, Glenn works for FedEx.
MARISHA: Oh, god damn it, Glenn. Fucking Glenn.
MATT: I wouldn't trust Glenn with anything, fuck
that guy.
BRIAN: FedEx rolled a natural one.
TALIESIN: Yeah, that's-- there's a couple of
little ones left in there, I think, but they're
mostly letters, and we tend not to do-- although
there's anything that's package-sized.
MARISHA: A few letters. We got letters from--
MATT: Say who they're from so that we don't have
to take too much longer.
MARISHA: From John Cox, Seth Taylor, Lee Teetsle.
I heard that.
BRIAN: I love names, you know me.
MARISHA: Gil M. Saint-Germain, Jenny Huntofts.
MATT: Jay Carter, III.
TALIESIN: Mooglefish.
MARISHA and MATT: Francesco Spezzari.
MATT: And Amanda Hokio.
MARISHA: From Erlanger, Kentucky.
MATT: Yeah!
MARISHA: My neck of the woods.
BRIAN and MARISHA: Kentucky!
MARISHA: We got letters from you so you know we
will look at those. We also-- what is this?
Time-sensitive, please get to Matt Mercer as soon
as possible.
MATT: That's going to be useful.
BRIAN: (singing) That's a subpoena.
MATT: (chuckling) No. From Jamie Savage.
TALIESIN: Oh no. I thought it was a baby bird
inside.
BRIAN: "Lol, everytime Dagon chimes in my
cockatiel tries to carry a conversation."
MARISHA: Aw, they're fwiends!
MATT: This is actually the breakdown of "The Epic
Battles Made Easy" from the DMs Guild they
printed out for me.
MARISHA: Would any of it have been helpful?
MATT: Well, it would've been helpful if you guys
hadn't bypassed the entirety of the actual war, so
it never would've come up. So it's their fault.
BRIAN: Yeah.
TALIESIN: We kind of snuck under. We did the
old-school Hollywood, "They're killing them by the
"thousands out there."
MATT: But no, this is great. Which, by the way
guys, I've actually downloaded this already,
Jamie, in preparation for these types of things.
Not with these specific creations, of course,
here, but this is awesome. If you guys haven't
seen it on the DMs Guild, this is a really good
way to help or break the large-scale
army-versus-army combat D&D without being a
billion dice rolls and bog down the actual
narrative, so, thank you so much, it's awesome.
MARISHA: All right, guys. I think that's it.
Right?
TALIESIN: Yeah, I think--
MARISHA: I need a break and some tea. Maybe a
glass of wine.
TALIESIN: Oh my God.
MARISHA: We did it!
ALL: Yay!
MATT: Thank you guys all so much for all of your
amazing generosity to the community, to us and our
ridiculous D&D show. Please continue to support
all the amazing causes that you do, and we do, and
each other.
MARISHA: I know, and all the charity gifts are
always amazing. Thank you so much for all the
congratulations and all the kind words and all
the--
BRIAN: Damn it.
TALIESIN: The sugar!
MARISHA: The sugar. I really hope I kill Raishan
so I get to keep that little green dragon.
BRIAN: We'll see.
MATT: Guys, thank you so much. We love you, and
we'll see you soon. Is it Thursday yet?
BRIAN: Love you guys. Bye!
TALIESIN: Happy weekend!
MARISHA: We'll see you on Tuesday for Talks
Machina.
MATT: Brian, you going to do what I do? You're
doing what I'm doing.
BRIAN: Hold on.
MATT: Yeah, it's not so easy when it's your-- huh?
How do you turn this off, huh? How do you do this?
BRIAN: Is it this?
MATT: How do you do it? How do you do it, Brian?
How do you turn this off, huh?
BRIAN: Is it-- it says "swipe down," but that's
your main thing.
MATT: All right. So?
MARISHA: Wow, every time. Every time.
BRIAN: (laughing) This is so good! I think there's
too many people and it's freezing the Periscope.
MATT: Maybe. Well, you know what I'm going to do?
I'm going to go ahead and--
TALIESIN: It ain't going to work.
MATT: Hard close. Bye, guys!
BRIAN: That was so funny. It wouldn't stop.